Discussion Title: A flat "Asset Tax" is all the tax we should ever pay

1. A flat "Asset Tax" is all the tax we should ever pay.
1.1. Con: The equity and bond market plays an extremely important role in Corporate America . A flat tax could easily change individuals' investment behavior in a negative way. If these changes were large enough, the market could potentially crash leading to a recession.
1.2. Con: An "Asset Tax" is inflexible to the changing class structures and financial needs of society.
1.2.1. Pro: Someone who inherits an asset, e.g. a house, may themselves be on very low income and be stuck between affording the asset tax and the house maintenance costs on the one hand, and the fear of homelessness due to high rental costs and a high risk housing market on the other hand. An asset tax would add unnecessary strain to such citizens, where existing taxation systems may have better protected them.
1.3. Con: Regardless of the source, percentage, or utility, compulsory taxation IS theft. The "satisfying Governmental revenue requirements" debate shouldn't be framed in various shades of "how to steal", it should be framed in terms of "how do we provide revenue without stealing".
1.4. Pro: An asset tax is the most fair system of taxing citizens.
1.4.1. Con: Taxes are also used as a method to redistribute wealth. If the tax is percentually the same for everyone, that function is totally lost.
1.4.2. Con: While the percentage may be the same, what it represents in terms of acquisitive power is very different. A 7% for a low-income person represents way more in their daily economy that a 7% may represent for a billionaire.
1.4.3. Pro: Only a flat tax applied to all parties and based on the value they actually hold/control \(v.s. the value that transiently passed through them\) can be considered perfectly fair.
1.5. Con: It would be incredibly difficult to accurately value all assets for all individuals. Especially since individuals can hide assets off shore.
1.6. Con: Taxing all assets equally might cause low return assets to lower in value until their yields are higher thereby hurting those assets even those those assets, with investment, may produce better returns \(higher yields\) tomorrow.
1.7. Pro: Simplifying the tax code to a single flat rate would redirect the time and energy required for compliance to other, more productive, work.
1.8. Con: Simplifying the tax code would threaten the incomes of many accountants and lawyers which in turn generates lots of tax revenue.
1.8.1. Con: Changing the entire system to one of a flat tax, determining what loopholes/ exceptions to allow, and managing the transfer to this system would likely allow ample work for existing accountants and lawyers. Younger professionals could choose to retrain, or work out a role for themselves within this new system, meaning a threat to the employment lawyers/ accountant is likely minimal.
1.9. Con: A flat tax would mean that wealthy people would pay more than they do now since they generally pay proportionally less than regular people in terms of an overall tax rate number. This means they would fight this idea and fighting an idea war with wealthy people is too hard.
1.9.1. Con: A state shouldn't decide on what policies it enacts based on what requires the least effort. If a flat tax would be best for the citizens of the state, the government, elected to represent those citizens, should put their efforts into convincing society of the policy's benefits, and trying to pass legislation and policy to enact such a tax.
1.10. Pro: A flat tax provides certainty to all tax payers.
1.11. Con: Tax incentives are a key way the government can direct the behavior of people and businesses.
1.11.1. Con: Use of fiscal policy including tax code to control populations is the same philosophy that was shared by the monarchs of old which we thankfully tossed aside for supposed liberty.  We should embrace our heritage of liberty not undermine it.
1.12. Pro: Taxing all return-generating assets the same would better equalize the tax paid by active \(job\) and passive \(money\) work.
1.12.1. Pro: The value of an asset is largely driven by the value it can generate \(its yield or return\) and as such it is a good proxy for all income. Today we tax income from active work \(salaries\) more than we do from passive work \(investments\) even though it's the active work that generates the income for the passive work and therefore should be incentivized more.