Discussion Title: A society with no gender would be better

1. A society with no gender would be better
1.1. Pro: There was a time that gender meant something. It was the first trait that identified who you were as a human being. But now "gender" has been redefined. Now it can be whatever you want. If it can be whatever you want, it has no value to a society. If it has no value to a society, it's not worth discussing. If it's not worth discussing, we don't have to argue anymore about pay gaps, restrooms, pronouns, misogyny, feminism, chivalry, etc. So, yes, I guess it would be better.
1.1.1. Con: It's unclear what "gender meant something" means.
1.2. Pro: People would then be able to have a better quality-of-life.
1.2.1. Pro: Without gender constructs, people can be safer by modifying their body towards functionality rather than gender conformity.
1.2.2. Pro: Stress would be lifted off of people trying to conform into a gender norm, especially if they feel it does not suit them.
1.2.2.1. Con: If people do not fit gender norms, then they can miss out on opportunities by not portraying themselves in a way that people can work with \(gender is part of a person's presentation/portrayal of capabilities\).
1.3. Pro: Having specific genders limits the progress advancement of society towards the future.
1.3.1. Pro: Genders might not work in a technological future where people become cyborgs.
1.3.2. Pro: In VR, people will be able to provide limitless body expression. Limiting people to genders would not make sense digitally here.
1.3.3. Con: To consider gender specificity as an inevitable hindrance to the progress of society is too bleak. Gender is source of human diversity / individuality.
1.4. Con: Socialization is based on education and distinction between differences and dealing with them, no gender means bringing up confusion and losse
1.4.1. Pro: With no genders, we would have serious consquences in the way things are organized. It would change our current understandings and delimitations in sports, for an example. Women have to compete with women and men have to compete with men, due to physical biological differences, inherent to each gender. It just wouldn't be fair. I can't see a way society will organize itself and live peacefully with a "no gender scenario".
1.4.1.1. Con: Thats just one example. You saying this would affect all of society and sighting one example. This argument format doesn't work
1.4.1.2. Con: The separation in sports depends on sex, not gender. The problem is the amount of testosterone, which depends on the body's nature and cannot be measured. This is very different from the more psychological and social gender.
1.5. Pro: A society with no stereotypes, roles, or discrimination based on gender would be better. This is an important distinction: it is not gender itself that is a problem, but our attitude towards it.
1.5.1. Con: This is true, but this is why a society without gender wouldn't be better, but a society without gender roles\(society's synthetic embodiment of gender, or the stereotypes, roles and discrimination associated with gender\) would be.
1.6. Con: Gender is important for reproduction of the species.
1.7. Con: There's no point in removing genders. Indeed, giving value to them brings cultural and social empowerment
1.8. Pro: Gender inequality would disappear.
1.8.1. Pro: Society would be less discriminatory.
1.8.1.1. Pro: Gender inequality would no longer occur
1.8.1.2. Con: Because of the [narcisssism of minor differences](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Narcissism_of_small_differences) humans are inherently discriminatory. If gender is taken away discrimination will take place on another level, e.g. plotting different quarters of a city against each other.
1.8.1.2.1. Pro: I think it would have the potential for true equality but I don't think it is necessary for that. Why can't I be a man who enjoys being a man and other people be women that enjoy being women or so on? Just like race isn't the problem causing racism I don't think gender is causing inequality, I think stupid and scared people in positions of power are responsible for that.
1.8.1.3. Pro: Discrimination is especially problematic online.
1.8.1.3.1. Pro: Discrimination is a particular problem for [adolescents](http://www.apa.org/science/about/psa/2015/12/online-racial-discrimination.aspx).
1.8.1.3.2. Con: You can hide your gender or act as the other one online = I do not think this is true
1.8.1.4. Con: I understand that people want to be inclusive and friendly, but the only way to be truly inclusive is to help these people accept and come to terms with who they are, right down to their genetics.
1.8.1.5. Con: There are always going to be disparities in what we can accomplish with our given sex \(child birth/lifting heavy things\). We will have different needs, and different expectations of us based on those different abilities. It's not really a realistic proposition.
1.8.1.6. Pro: LGBTI people would be a group that would particularly benefit.
1.8.2. Pro: Violence against women would reduce.[mobile.abc.net.au](http://mobile.abc.net.au/news/2018-07-30/parents-can-promote-gender-equality-and-help-prevent-violence-a/10050608?pfmredir=sm)
1.8.2.1. Pro: The systemic causes behind violence against women are rooted on sexist and misogynist stereotypes and values. And thus, as gender disappears, they will also disappear.
1.8.2.1.1. Con: It won't disappear. The idea of Sexist Violence in the eyes of society might, but that's only because what we call Gender-based violence is just that... Violence. What you would see in a drop in Gender based violence, there would be a spike in generalized Violence to take its place. Its only taking a tag of something and putting it into a generalized pool of everything else. It helps no one and Dis-benefits everybody involved.
1.8.2.1.1.1. Pro: We are inherently violent creatures. The thing we are best at is killing.
1.8.2.1.2. Con: Not acknowledging a fact, does not make a fact less real. Women would lose the protections in place for them now.
1.8.2.2. Con: There may be the same levels of violence, it would just not be known whether the acts of violence were committed against men or women.
1.8.2.2.1. Pro: Reducing violence against women by definition only would not be helpful.
1.8.2.3. Con: statistically men are more likely to be victims of violence
1.8.2.4. Con: Biological acts of violence such as rape would continue unimpeded.
1.8.3. Con: No gender is a crooked alternative to equal rights
1.8.4. Con: Saying there is no gender will not eliminate the obvious distinctions between the two
1.8.4.1. Con: The obvious distinction between the two is covered by our pants. Everything else would become diluted without gender \(provided that society still use pants\)
1.8.5. Pro: [Toxic masculinity](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Toxic%20Masculinity), with all of its[harmful effects](https://thepsychologist.bps.org.uk/volume-21/edition-4/masculinities-and-suicide), would be eliminated.
1.8.5.1. Con: Toxic masculinity is a term designed to shame men for being how men are. It's the inverse of virtuous women, which is a fallacy
1.8.6. Con: Inequality would continue to exist, gendered or not.
1.8.7. Pro: Those born female would have greater opportunities for accessing promotions, wage justice and financial equality.
1.8.7.1. Con: Wage gap has been pretty thoroughly debunked.in employment sought,
1.8.7.2. Con: In developed countries women already have equal opportunity in regard to employment and career, and in some cases more opportunity. No longer recognising the female gender could possibly erode their current rights and not improve them.
1.8.7.2.1. Con: The gender wage gap in many developed nations suggests women do not have equal opportunities.
1.8.7.2.1.1. Con: Wage gap argument nullified if u factor in employment sought, comparative hours worked, level of danger/hazard pay, men typically dont stay home with kids, etc
1.8.8. Con: Inequality would remain as equality is subject to individual perception and measure.
1.9. Pro: Gender is an unnecessary social construction.
1.9.1. Pro: Gender and distinctions based on gender serve no purpose in business settings.
1.9.1.1. Con: While gender may not have purpose in a business setting, this does not mean it has no purpose in society at large.
1.9.1.2. Pro: Focusing on gender conformity can cause people to not participate in business settings as easily as if they just forgot about gender and instead focus more on the business they're in. This would lead to better productivity.
1.9.1.3. Pro: Gender causes is detrimental to business at times, as there are too many sexual harassment scandals due to gender.
1.9.2. Pro: In present society, people's behaviour is often constrained by their gender.
1.9.2.1. Con: Behavior is constrained by gender roles. Gender itself does very little to inhibit an individual with societal expectations, so gender is not a constraining force.
1.9.2.2. Con: Transgender people don't seem to be constrained by their gender.
1.9.2.3. Con: It is necessary for men and women to behave differently, particularly in extreme circumstances such as war. Men are usually physically stronger so it is logical for society to use them as soldiers.
1.9.2.3.1. Con: Without gender you could actually pick the strongest of all, not only men.
1.9.2.4. Pro: People could dress, choose a partner, choose a career or pursue other goals regardless of their gender.
1.9.2.4.1. Con: People can do all of these things already. Gender does not need to be redefined to make this possible.
1.9.2.5. Con: A genderless society is a fake and ideological social construct. For the ideology to be successful, it would depend on imposing extreme and unnatural constraints on people who identify as male or female, and possibly even require the criminalisation of their gender identity.
1.9.2.5.1. Pro: People who identify as not their biological sex make up extremely small population segment. Why would it make sense to cater to one of the smallest groups possible?
1.9.2.5.1.1. Con: Liberal and Progressive ideals tend towards self sacrifice so that individuals outside of ones self can be considered. Consider affirmative action as being a program to help those that act as a minority of society.
1.9.2.6. Pro: People being free to express themselves may lead people to be happier.
1.9.2.6.1. Con: People are free to express themselves already. Gender does not need to be redefined in order to have the freedom of expression.
1.9.2.6.2. Con: Could just as easily lead to them being less happy
1.9.3. Pro: Gender creates confusion, as people need to follow invisible, at-times unwritten rules instead of becoming who they truly want to be.
1.9.4. Con: Gender is not merely a social construct. It's genetical traits can not be simply ignored, as pretending it is not there might be harmful.
1.9.4.1. Con: That's sex, not gender.
1.9.5. Con: Darwin's theory of biological evolution states "that all species of organisms arise and develop through the natural selection of small, inherited variations that increase the individual's ability to compete, survive, and reproduce". Thus socially gender must have an evolutionary basis of being created to assist us biologically.
1.9.6. Pro: There is a difference between gender and biological sex.
1.9.6.1. Con: Only in terms of individual perception of ones self. To literally any third party, you are male or female in their perception/society's
1.9.6.1.1. Pro: Gender is a natural phenomenon that society has hijacked in the form of gender roles. Internal ideas on gender are rebellion against the gender roles given in society, not a rebellion against gender.
1.9.6.2. Con: There [isn't](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/gender). Gender and sex vary almost completely dependently with one another.
1.9.7. Con: While certain aspects of gender expression in any given time are socially socially influenced, and while some cultures have historically included third or mixed genders, the overwhelming preponderance of a binary gender correlating to natal sex - appearing simultaneously across isolated civilizations throughout all of human history - strongly suggests that gender itself is not created.
1.9.7.1. Con: If gender is a social construct, the evidence for it will be seen through social sciences and should be considered independent from natal sex until further social movements can be seen as the idea gains momentum. In this scenario we might see that previous mixed genders were a rare or exclusive event of not having the knowledge that gender is entirely socially constructed.
1.10. Con: Gender is naturally occurring.
1.10.1. Con: Whether it is natural or not doesn't make it better for society
1.10.2. Con: Gender is changeable, as it is formed in the mind.
1.10.3. Con: Gender is [complex](https://www.genderspectrum.org/quick-links/understanding-gender/) and intangible, allowing it to be modified more easily than a person's sex. In laymen's terms, a person's gender is not written in stone, whereas a person's sex is. Thus, gender is able to be manipulated as desired.
1.10.4. Con: Gender is also [affected by the environment](https://othersociologist.com/sociology-of-gender/). Thus if gender norms change, so do a person's gender. That is why it being naturally occurring does not mean gender should exist.
1.10.5. Pro: You can't eliminate gender. Gender is [defined by the APA as the "attitudes, feelings, and behaviors associated with a persons biological sex."](https://www.apa.org/pi/lgbt/resources/sexuality-definitions.pdf)Because of the major physical and psychological differences between the sexes, the behaviors and traits of men and women will always differentiate, and therefore some traits will always be gendered. For example, pregnancy and motherhood will always be associated with women.
1.10.5.1. Con: I don't believe this will happen in the future, as scientists are continuously trying to find methods to push the envelope on reproduction. Current reproduction methods may be archaic compared to ones that can happen in the future.
1.10.5.2. Con: Nothing suggests that these attitudes, feelings and behaviors cannot disappear in the future.
1.10.6. Pro: Nature is an integral, inescapable part of all life on Earth. [There are over 6500 genetic differences](https://www.dailysignal.com/2017/12/11/cretella-transcript/) that make us male or female.
1.10.6.1. Con: Gender is a social construction while one's sex is biological.
1.10.7. Con: A lot of aspects of modern society are not natural and yet they are better.
1.10.7.1. Con: The issue is not when we create a synthetic construct, but when we use one in defiance of nature. Gender itself exists for a reason, and to claim we should remove it is arrogant \(to clarify, gender roles took gender for societal gains, and therefore removing gender roles would be a different can of beans.\).
1.10.8. Con: No other species of animal on the planet displays gendered signifiers
\(please note, sexual dimorphism is not the same thing as gendered differences\)
1.11. Con: Gender is an important tool for social organisation.
1.11.1. Pro: And more importantly, for biological organisation.
1.11.2. Con: There are other more productive means of social organization, such as one's social role or one's mastered set of skills.
1.11.2.1. Con: Skill sets and social roles are determined primarily by gender.
1.11.3. Pro: Gender makes human courtship, which is a major component of human culture and society, easier and therefore more accessible.
1.11.4. Con: Tools of social organization are really tools of social control.
1.11.5. Pro: Tools for social organisation are important to ensure social cohesion and that society functions effectively.
1.11.6. Pro: The costs and benefits that might result from eliminating gender from society aren't clear.
1.12. Con: Gender is an intrinsic part of humanity and cannot be removed.
1.12.1. Pro: The process of eliminating gender could be highly unjust.
1.12.1.1. Con: Eliminating gender may not be more or less unjust than creating gender.
1.12.1.1.1. Con: Or it could be vastly more just or drastically more unjust
1.12.1.1.2. Con: Since gender identities already exist, the burden of proof that eliminating gender identities and roles would cause less harm than keeping it in place should be on those proposing to eliminate it.
1.12.1.2. Pro: Many people who want to identify as one gender or another may feel oppressed if they were forced to be gender neutral.
1.12.2. Con: It was assumed that distinct gender roles would also be essential to society, but that was wrong.
1.12.2.1. Pro: In many societies both parents continue working.
1.12.2.2. Pro: In many societies it is perfectly acceptable for the man to stay at home and take care of the kids.
1.12.2.3. Con: There is few if any ppl who would prefer an army of women over an army of men
1.12.2.4. Con: Gender roles are synthetic whereas gender is not. While the two are related, they are categorically different and therefore equating them is foolish.
1.12.3. Con: Many conservative value sets were considered essential to keep society working, but when these were changed, societies did not collapse.
1.12.3.1. Pro: Homosexuality was forbidden, once allowed, nothing bad happened.
1.12.3.1.1. Con: Patently false statement filled with assumptions. When was it "allowed"? When was it "forbidden?" NOTHING bad happened? AIDS epidemic...
1.12.3.2. Pro: Women were not allowed to vote or study. When this was changed, the world did not collapse.
1.12.3.2.1. Con: Cannot be determined society was improved in any meaningful way either.
1.12.3.3. Con: The fact society changed and didn't collapse because certain values changed, doesn't mean it wont if different values change.
1.12.4. Pro: The notion men and women are equal is patently false. We are reciprocal.
1.12.4.1. Pro: If we are equal, then any time i would strike a man i should strike a woman.
1.12.4.2. Con: Such notion of equality only refers to rights.
1.12.4.3. Con: Men-Woman are reciprocal concepts because we are in fact in a society divided into two categories
1.12.5. Pro: A woman can do anything a man can do, except be a man.
1.12.5.1. Con: Gender is separate to sex. If gender was removed, the concept of man would not exist. Only the concept of male.
1.12.5.1.1. Con: Male and man are synonomous
1.12.5.2. Pro: The modern idea of gender is tied to emotions. "I feel like a girl today, I'm a man today."
1.12.6. Pro: Many people gain a strong sense of identity from their gender.
1.12.6.1. Con: Sources of identity change with the advancement of social expectations and technological advancement.
1.12.6.2. Pro: Encouraging someone to be a gender that they are not will never help them be happy. It is a denial of the most basic, intrinsic part of who they are.
1.13. Con: Embracing diversity, including gender diversity, enriches society by making it more nuanced and interesting.
1.13.1. Pro: Killing diversity is opposing one of the most relevant nature’s traits. Do not kill the mockingbird.
1.13.1.1. Con: Nature regularly purges nonviable diversity
1.13.2. Con: Diversity for diversities sake is extremely counter to the natural order. In nature, diversity is a survival of the fittest mechanism. In human society, diversity most often times leads to conflict. The most peaceful modern human societies are the most homogenous ones. If the blanket term diversity is inherently good/beneficial to society, then sexual "diversities" such as pedophilia are inherently good bc they make society "more nuanced and interesting"
1.13.2.1. Con: Humane societies do not work on a "natural order", a person should not change the way he wants to behave because of other people and the world \(and it's diversities\) became more peacefull with the globalization
1.13.2.2. Con: What should be eradicated is the confict based behavior, and harmful conducts towards others and not one's personal choices