Discussion Title: Alex Jones has a negative impact on society

1. Alex Jones has a negative impact on society
1.1. Pro: People who take his conspiracy theories seriously may initiate violent action.
1.1.1. Con: As so long as Alex Jones doesn't incite violence he shouldn't be held accountable for the actions of other people.
1.2. Con: He creates awareness about health and wellness products that benefit his listeners.
1.2.1. Con: He is basically a protein powder, and other junk item peddler.
1.2.2. Pro: He sells different products aimed at his listeners throughout his program
1.2.3. Pro: He is educating people about health topics like clean water and nutrition.
1.3. Con: Suppressing Jones' right to speak freely is more damaging than anything Jones can say
1.3.1. Pro: Testing the limits of free speech is how we protect free speech.
1.3.1.1. Pro: Maybe he does but he has a right to express his views and opinions. Social media can't pick and choose when to be private and public companies.
1.4. Pro: We don't need more negativity in the world.
1.5. Pro: News media should only come from credentialed journalists.
1.5.1. Pro: If false information is circulated, it damages public perception of different issues which is dangerous.
1.5.2. Con: Mainstream media is often biased and can be bought and sold, it is dangerous to suppress alternative forms of media.
1.6. Pro: He helped to get Trump elected and this is having a negative impact on society.
1.6.1. Pro: Jones's listeners are influenced by him and he openly supported Trump.
1.6.1.1. Pro: People buy up to $25 million per year in products from the Infowars store, many of which are sold at much higher prices than their non-Infowars-branded counterparts, so his salesmanship influences people.
1.6.1.2. Pro: Jones has come out on many occasions in support of Trump as "the real deal" and other positive descriptions, openly advocating that his viewers vote Trump.
1.6.2. Pro: Trade sanctions risk disrupting US relations with long-time trade partners.
1.6.3. Pro: Racial tensions have increased in profile and volatility.
1.6.4. Pro: Political polarization has increased, impacting the ability for both the left and the right to create compromise.
1.6.5. Con: This is [not universally true](https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/12/31/trump-better-things-president-effects-216201); many people think Trump is a positive figure.
1.7. Con: He is wrong a lot, but he has been right about some really important things that the mainstream media overlooks.
1.8. Con: He helped to get Trump elected and this is having a positive impact on society.