Discussion Title: All human interaction should be voluntary

1. All human interaction should be voluntary
1.1. Con: Enforcing the principle would violate the principle in some degree.
1.1.1. Pro: Voluntary contracts between people will be fulfilled by the simple fact of wanting to keep the honor intact and thus be able to continue trading among people, just as a company does today, which does not want to commit acts that imply it in a mess harm your corporate image.
1.2. Pro: This would decentralize power thus allowing autonomy for all groups and individuals to act however they want while respecting each other.
1.2.1. Con: There is nothing to suggest that the groups would respect each other.
1.2.1.1. Con: The change could happen at the micro level beginning with even one person who decides to act respecting others, thus it has begun, and then can spread in discussion like this and maybe gain ground.
1.2.2. Pro: Interaction would be mutually respectful, and thus allowing for unhindered life of all parties.
1.2.2.1. Pro: In countries such as France, in which people often kiss someone on the cheek upon meeting them, [many](https://asperguette.wordpress.com/2014/01/20/une-coutume-sociale-fatigante-faire-la-bise/) people [express](https://www.paperblog.fr/5608686/j-ai-decide-de-ne-plus-faire-la-bise/) their [dislike](http://goldfishgangblog.com/2016/03/31/je-naime-faire-la-bise/) and [discomfort](http://julias-facts.blogspot.co.uk/2012/03/je-naime-pas-faire-la-bise.html) towards this culturally enforced personal interaction. If this were voluntary, it would remove such discomfort in many social situations.
1.2.2.2. Pro: Such a society would be free, liberated, and respect all people's liberty.
1.3. Pro: All human interaction is already voluntary.
1.3.1. Con: Taxes, wars, citizenship, military draft, religion in some countries, sex slavery, dictatorships, currency, cannabis, gambling, parenting in some countries and many other factors are not already voluntary
1.3.2. Con: Naturally all humans have free will, but respecting everyone's free will is the principle of voluntarism.
1.4. Con: All human interaction is governed by the laws of nature, and hence cannot be purely voluntary.
1.4.1. Pro: Human interaction is physically required for normal childhood development. More specifically if this applied to infants who could not volunteer for interaction. The child is unlikely to develop proper mental function and in some causes have spontaneously died.
1.4.2. Con: Laws of nature don't govern anything because to govern something implies a human actor is involved thus again the NAP and voluntaryism are appropriate tactics.
1.4.3. Con: Nature only gave humans free will, we have to choose to respect each others' free will and voluntarism is that principle.
1.5. Pro: This would protect all human life.
1.5.1. Con: Current crimes such as rape and GBH - which can be viewed as illegal, extreme forms of human interaction - still occur regardless of their illegality. Making all human interaction strictly consensual by law would thus not guarantee protection of all human life.
1.5.2. Pro: The culture of interacting with people such as making friends and having relationships sets people up for abuse. Examples are bullying and bad relationships. People should not be pressured into interacting with others.
1.5.2.1. Con: Forming healthy social relationships also has many positive effects on both physical and mental wellbeing, as countless studies have shown.
1.5.2.1.1. Pro: Across 148 studies, researchers showed that strong social relations result in a [50%](http://journals.plos.org/plosmedicine/article?id=10.1371/journal.pmed.1000316#s3) increased likelihood of survival.
1.5.3. Pro: This would protect human interaction from abusive forces.
1.6. Con: Any human act has effects on the lives of others. Voluntarism gives power to those who choose to act in selfish ways, affecting others negatively. Under it, one person could choose to pollute a river, but a group of townspeople downstream could not choose to restrict this person's access to the river. If, under some loophole, they could, the system of voluntarism would be the same as any current governmental system, but with a different name.
1.6.1. Con: Voluntarism still allows for court systems and enforcement that is agreed by the community, and laws that are built on the NAP, there could be some small governments by choice, and some free areas, but a common law court system based on the NAP everywhere.
1.7. Pro: With the rise of automation taking over jobs this will become more of a reality.
1.7.1. Con: Whether or not a state of affairs is likely to happen has no bearing on whether or not it is morally acceptable.
1.8. Con: This is only realistic or relevant for financially comfortable, young, and healthy adults without children or other dependents.
1.9. Pro: This would benefit marginalised or minority social groups, whose human rights would be improved.
1.9.1. Con: This would harm minority groups, because those in power would have a right to ignore them.
1.9.2. Pro: In a voluntary society you wouldn't have the various "wars on this" movements of suppression of other groups as the government would not try to force beliefs on parts of the population.
1.9.3. Pro: This promotes diversity as people who are different are respected and not seen as competition or targets for suppression
1.10. Con: If all interaction was voluntary, enforcing laws would become more difficult.
1.10.1. Pro: Different people will always want different interactions with other people, and involuntary actions sometimes benefit the greater good. Once a person commits rape or murder, their imprisonment should not be voluntary.
1.10.2. Con: The civil court system is a perfectly suitable framework for such matters.
1.10.2.1. Pro: The civil court should be elected and be ad honorem.
1.10.3. Con: There is no need for a system of judgement in a situation where interactions are purely voluntary.
1.10.3.1. Con: There would need to be a court to decide when there are violations of some one's free will in civil and criminal matters such as violations of the NAP through rape, murder or violence \(crime\) or breaking of a contract or theft \(civil\).
1.10.4. Pro: Criminals couldn't be punished if they object.
1.10.5. Con: A system can be based on a NAP \(non-aggression principle\).
1.10.5.1. Con: -> See 1.1.
1.10.5.2. Pro: The Non-Aggression Principle is the moral stance that individuals are free to act as they choose with the exception that they may not initiate force, or the threat of force, against another person or their property.
1.10.5.2.1. Pro: Violations of the NAP would be violations of the law and punishable still.  \(violence, rape, murder\)
1.10.5.2.1.1. Con: Crimes such as larceny, prostitution, drug possession/production/distribution, and tax evasion can be accomplished with either consensual interaction or none at all.
1.10.5.2.1.1.1. Con: Larceny would be a civil crime and no jail time, drugs and prostitution would probably be decriminalized if they were consensual or by choice.
1.10.5.2.1.1.2. Con: There probably would be no taxes in the first place.
1.10.5.2.2. Pro: Enforcing laws will be easier because there would be less chance of crime to begin with. The likelihood of certain crimes such as robbery or hit-and-runs would lessen.
1.10.5.3. Pro: Many ideas and philosophies would be allowed to pursue thus making a free market of ideas where some groups could pursue anarchy if they abide by the NAP while others could have small voluntary governments, whether democracy or republic.
1.10.5.3.1. Pro: Many smaller entities would be allowed to be formed; their attempts at providing whatever they pursue for society would allow for experimentation, and this experimentation could lead to many possibilities and interactions with other groups that could all offer something different.
1.10.5.3.1.1. Pro: Many groups would be free to form with different methods to reach any goal; for example, various groups that provide security might do so in return for money, membership, trade in goods, trade in labor or a combination.  If they are all voluntary they would compete peacefully.
1.10.5.3.2. Pro: -> See discussion #6144: Anarchy is the only ethical system of society.
1.10.5.3.3. Con: This assumes all societies would respect the non aggression principle; the principle cannot be imposed without violating the very ideals it creates.
1.10.5.3.3.1. Con: The change could happen at the micro level beginning with even one person who decides to act respecting others, thus it has begun, and then can spread in discussion like this and maybe gain ground.
1.10.5.3.3.1.1. Con: This seems utopian: although it could happen, it seems very unlikely. Those who commit horrendous crimes because of a psychological condition not because of society or the system in which they are governed cannot be convinced to abide by the NAP.
1.10.5.3.3.1.1.1. Con: The main point is that this is a principle that decentralizes human interaction away from government...The limited government we really need would probably just be the court system which could jail anyone for rape or murder which are violations of the NAP.  Notice the principle just implies "should" as voluntaryism is only accomplished with free will.  That doesn't mean there can't be massive movements.  

This really is a movement for less government alongside others....\(Anarchist, Libertarian\)
1.10.5.3.3.1.1.1.1. Con: But what about government to limit market failure? If government can be coercive then as can concentrated wealth. The free market can be just as oppressive as the state. Therefore the government not step in to stop the abuse of private sector power.
1.10.5.3.3.1.1.1.1.1. Pro: Civil court in this voluntary society would probably evolve over time to combat breaches of contract and monopolies. A corporation that abuses other people's free market or life would have to be proven in court to be at fault. This would be a tricky situation where some one is not involved in a contract but is causing either side to fail as a third party
1.10.5.3.3.2. Con: The change would be voluntary and perhaps take time.
1.10.5.4. Pro: A government with only the mandate to have a simple court system that only enforce violent breaks of the NAP would be small, unobtrusive and not need any taxes.
1.10.5.4.1. Con: This government would struggle to defend against foreign nations, with standing armies.
1.10.5.4.2. Pro: This would cut down on potential government corruption.
1.10.5.4.3. Con: It's not clear how violent infractions could be fairly tackled without an independent funded police force.
1.10.5.4.4. Pro: Taxation is Theft - therefore ending coercive taxing of citizens would be another benefit of a voluntary society - if a road needed to be built it would be either by private funding or a voluntary pooled effort and could still get accomplished but without force
1.10.5.4.4.1. Pro: -> See discussion #5380: Taxation is theft.