Discussion Title: Are The Rules Of The Criminal Justice System Fair?

1. The rules of the criminal justice system are fair
1.1. Pro: These rules have been evolving since the days of [Medieval English common law](https://www.britannica.com/topic/common-law). They have been tweaked for centuries. The people who choose to go into this field have a bias towards seeing justice done. While not perfect the system is certainly fair.
1.1.1. Con: People don't enter law out of an exclusive desire to see justice done. It is a highly paid and prestigious profession. Furthermore, one may argue that even if there is a, "Desire to see justice done" if would likely manifest in a bias towards punishment of alleged criminals.
1.1.2. Con: Shia law has been around for a long time in many nations historically even until today. There is nothing fair about chopping off hands, killing gay people, beating women, owning slaves, stealing from or lying to infidels, etc. Longevity and flexibility do not indicate fairness of a legal system.
1.1.3. Pro: For as long as the law can be tweaked and amended, it remains fair to the rules of society as they are at any given time. It only becomes unjust if it becomes inflexible.
1.1.3.1. Con: The tools to tweak and amend the law are outside of the reach of most people. Those who are sociopolitically marginalized often have no way to impact law. When you consider the demographics of the incarcerated, flexibility sounds farcical.
1.1.4. Con: The Criminal Justice System is far more concerned with accuracy than justice. Increasing exceptions to the Constitution just to get a conviction mar the purpose of the Founder's view: justice and liberty. We place more importance on getting people in prison and less importance on due process and equal protection. Currently, a prosecutor is concerned with getting convictions. A prosecutor's duty should not be to the outcome of the trial, but should be to the law, to truth, and to justice.
1.2. Pro: Around [97% of defendants take a plea bargain](https://theoutline.com/post/2066/most-criminal-cases-end-in-plea-bargains-not-trials?zd=1&zi=cz5fmbk3), which shows that the system is almost exclusively catching and prosecuting guilty people. If a innocent person told their defence council that they were innocent of the crime the council would absolutely recommend a trial, as in trial, the defendant is innocent until proven guilty beyond reasonable doubt.
1.2.1. Con: A plea bargain does not necessarily represent guilt. It can be difficult for many people to contest criminal charges because of cost, time expenditure, threat to reputation, and threat of jail time. As a result, many innocent people choose plea bargains in order to avoid jail time.
1.2.2. Pro: Plea bargains are disproportionately used in criminal charges in place of trials. A plea bargain is where a prosecutor offers a charge with a lesser sentence in exchange for a guilty plea. This means that prosecution is often knowingly charging individuals for crimes that they did not commit, and that the rules of the system fundamentally operate on a system of lies, which cannot be just and fair.
1.2.3. Con: This is assuming that everyone gets fair representation. The reality is that this is not the case for those of us who are poor, as the time a public defense attorney has per case is measured in seconds and minutes rather than days and weeks.
1.2.4. Con: There are many reasons to disbelieve the notion that those who take plea bargains are guilty. The American justice system is notorious for setting unreasonable bails and taking a long time to bring cases to trial. In that context taking a plea may seem like a relief to seemingly endless incarceration and uncertainty.
1.3. Con: Prosecutors have many advantages over the defence.
1.3.1. Con: Innocent until proven guilty is a massive advantage for the defence. They win by default unless the prosecution can muster enough evidence to convict. Even then the defence can call into doubt evidence, disqualify evidence based on incorrect procedures or technicalities or use a host of other means to cast into doubt the prosecutors story.
1.3.2. Con: The prosecutor must prove that one particular story line occurred. The defence only has to showed that literally anything else could have happened.
1.3.2.1. Con: Prosecutors are allowed to bring multiple charges against a single suspect, which means that they do not need to convince a jury of a single particular story line. For example, prosecution can charge someone with murder in the first degree, murder in the second degree, and manslaughter, all homicide. The jury has to pick one \(if any\) that best applies. But that means that a story can lie on a continuum.
1.3.3. Con: Those who can afford it can hire substantially better lawyers than the prosecution.
1.3.4. Pro: Anything an individual says to police is subject to use by the prosecution under exceptions to hearsay rule limitations. However, unless the prosecution brings it to court, anything that a suspect says to the police that may exonerate them remains unavailable to use as evidence by the defense.
1.3.4.1. Con: The discovery process requires that the record of the defendant and any statement given to police is given to the defence.
1.3.4.2. Con: Withholding evidence such as this would be a Brady violation.
1.3.4.3. Con: However, the defendant can testify, and tell the jury what was said previously
1.3.4.4. Con: In the USA, "Miranda rights" were adopted to specifically address this problem.
1.3.4.4.1. Con: In spite of ubiquitously reading Miranda rights, the same police who read them will still coerce people into waiving their right to silence.
1.3.5. Pro: The lawyers who become prosecutors commonly are better educated, more respected, paid better and have greater career advancement opportunities than those who become defence attorneys this is particularly true when comparing them to public defenders. The courtroom is playing the varsity against the JV team.
1.3.5.1. Con: That does not influence the fact of whether or not the prosecution or defense is fundamentally easier or difficult. What if an educated and highly paid lawyer is on the defense?
1.3.6. Pro: [A majority of judges](https://www.nytimes.com/2014/02/07/opinion/the-homogeneous-federal-bench.html) were previously prosecutors, meaning they have a life long bias towards conviction.
1.3.6.1. Pro: Many judges are elected. This creates a pressure for them to have a high conviction rate in order to present a positive image to the public.
1.3.6.1.1. Con: This is not necessarily true. The public perception of elected officials is not exclusively dependent on their convictions, but the justice they mete out; they do not need to prosecute in order to maintain respect.
1.3.7. Pro: The work load of a prosecutor is much less than a public defender.
1.3.8. Pro: Head prosecutors are chosen through a process of elections. As a result, prosecutors try to maintain a rate of high convictions and long sentences in order to maintain a certain reputation and remain in office instead of pursuing fair convictions and protecting the public's wellbeing.
1.3.9. Con: The prosecutor must convince all of the jurors to convict. The defense only has to convince one juror to avoid conviction.
1.4. Con: Police officers are extremely rarely held accountable by the criminal justice system because the rules require that an officer be investigated by his/her coworkers and charged by lawyers whose professional success depends on working cooperatively with police officers.
1.4.1. Con: Investigations would be by the internal affairs department that is a separate entity from the regular police units.
1.4.2. Con: Such cases commonly have state or at very least local elected government oversight.
1.4.3. Con: Police need to have an extra level of protection from civil and criminal law so that they are less hindered doing their jobs.
1.4.4. Pro: Justice ought to be blind. Giving police special treatment is saying that in some sense they are above the law.
1.4.5. Pro: Police officers are [allowed to lie](https://www.innocenceproject.org/prevalence-police-lying/) to suspects in order to obtain confessions and incriminating statements.
1.4.6. Pro: In many courts, especially federal courts, there is almost no public oversight over the granting of warrants.
1.4.7. Pro: Probable cause is way too vague and is used as a means to avoid the need for a warrant.
1.4.8. Con: Police can be sued for violating someone’s rights. Also, you can file a complaint for their personnel file.
1.5. Con: The sentences required by the criminal justice system are arbitrary and divorced from the context of the facts of the case.
1.5.1. Con: Sentences are not arbitrary. They were written into law by an elected legislative branch. Or they are pronounced by an elected judge. Or by a judge appointed by an elected official.
1.5.1.1. Con: The legislative branches of states assigned arbitrary lengths to most felony convictions in the 1990's as part of mandatory minimum law changes.
1.5.1.2. Con: All states have mandatory minimum laws that dictate the lengths of most felony sentences. Strict sentencing guidelines have been shown to have led to longer sentences than when judges used discretion to make sentences.
1.5.2. Pro: Sentences prove useless for rehabilitation; they provide little to no restitution to the victims and when too short allow dangerous people back on the street.
1.5.3. Pro: The political process is awful and can not be trusted to create an environment where reasonable sentences could be created or implemented.
1.5.3.1. Con: Politics is imperfect, but continues to adapt and work on finding true justice; it has to be trusted despite its shortcomings.
1.5.4. Pro: Some state courts [use computer algorithms](https://www.propublica.org/article/machine-bias-risk-assessments-in-criminal-sentencing) in their sentencing guidelines. Even though those algorithms do not use race, the algorithms are systematically more likely to incorrectly label black defendants as high risk of recidivism than white defendants, and, thus, incorrectly sentence black people to longer terms in prison.
1.5.5. Pro: The system has "Mandatory Minimums" and "three strike" laws for a variety of crimes, decided in legislatures far from the facts of the events. These rules specifically exclude a judge's ability to give lenient sentences where appropriate.
1.6. Pro: Rules are applicable to everyone in the same fashion.
1.6.1. Con: To state that the criminal justice system, or any system for that matter, is not flawed is a vague and insubstantial claim.
1.7. Con: Lawyers are expensive, good lawyers are more expensive, and public defenders are notoriously underpaid and overworked. Money very often determines the outcome of a trial.
1.7.1. Pro: The bail system unfairly punishes poor people and lets the rich off the hook. [www.nytimes.com](https://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/11/us/when-bail-is-out-of-defendants-reach-other-costs-mount.html) [www.theguardian.com](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/apr/25/california-bail-system-tiffany-li-joseph-warren)
1.8. Con: There is a major flaw in the criminal justice system, in that there's a possibility that the verdict will be affected, either by the jury's bias or misinterpretation of the evidence presented on trial.
1.9. Con: The media has too much of an impact on the perception of somebody's guilt or innocence
1.10. Pro: "Fair as possible" \(a moving target\) is "fair enough" out of necessity. As fuzzy concepts maintained by humans, fairness and justice are unattainable ideals. Life is not fair. The fairness of something like the justice system is relative to inaction, predictably allowing greater unfairnesses \(i.e. crime\). Assuming people continue working to improve the system, the judgment of that system \(especially in a democracy\) is the best option yet. It's fair that the system isn't perfectly fair.
1.10.1. Con: The system does not readily accept improvements to unfairnesses \(listed elsewhere\).
1.10.2. Con: Many citizens accept the law uncritically, at face value, and do not judge the morality of law with the same enthusiasm they use to judge people who disobey the rules, for the rules' sake alone.
1.10.3. Pro: Unfairnesses in the system do get corrected over time.
1.11. Con: The warrant process is just a rubber stamp for whatever the police want. They work with each other every day, in the private sector this would be a case of regulatory capture.
1.11.1. Con: There are strict rules governing this process. if a warrant was made illegally the defence attorney would have an easy win by striking down the evidence in court. The judge who makes shady warrants could end up disbarred for such behaviour