Discussion Title: Are We Morally Compelled to Help Others in Need?

1. We are morally compelled to help others in need.
1.1. Pro: Cooperative societies are the most successful societies.
1.1.1. Pro: A spirit of cooperation helps to overcome the [freerider problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free-rider_problem) by creating social incentives to reciprocate cooperation.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Korea's nationalism helped to mobilize the entire society in the creation of common goods, such as renovating rural villages in the [Saemaul Undong](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saemaul_Undong) movement.
1.2. Pro: Helping others may be perceived as form of long-term investment.
1.2.1. Pro: The provider of help is not invulnerable. Helping others creates a network that protects everybody.
1.3. Con: Morality is relative so it depends upon the person's sense of morality.
1.4. Pro: People are naturally cooperative beings. Helping those in need is natural.
1.5. Pro: Religion compels us to help those in need.
1.6. Con: We are not obligated to sacrifice our life for another so why should be we obligated to sacrifice a portion of it.
1.7. Con: Genuine altruism results in a cost to the helper and affects their ability to take care of themselves.
1.8. Pro: Helping others is good karma.
1.9. Con: There is no rational or logical basis for an individual to help another when that individual has nothing to gain from helping.
1.9.1. Con: This holds true only when your ultimate goal is to maximize your individual gain. There are other frames of reference that lead to different logical conclusions.
1.9.2. Con: Logic is a method of reasoning, it doesn't provide imperatives. In other words, \(under assumptions\) it tells you what is true, not what is right.
1.9.2.1. Con: What is true is right.
1.9.2.1.1. Con: These are completely different concepts. The logical statement "John killed Anne" may be logically true, but this does not imply any "rightness".
1.10. Con: The philosophy of altruism has lead to some of the worst atrocities in history as a result of actions being taken 'for the greater good'.
1.10.1. Con: Utilitarianism and altruism are different things. Altruism is the concern for the well-being of other human beings, and is far less likely to motivate atrocities than utilitarianism, as well-being of others and genocide are not compatible.
1.10.2. Con: Although actions motivated by the greater good may have had negative consequences, this only means that such actors have not actually succeeded in helping others in need. Such examples are thus not relevant the existence of a duty to help others, since that duty's existence is independent of whether people have historically acted upon that duty successfully.
1.10.3. Con: The fact that we see people who act for the greater good and fail as having made some kind of mistake points to the fact that we see them as having failed to do what they are morally compelled to do. So in fact, this con is based on the assumed truth of the thesis - if we were not morally compelled to help others then our failure to do so would not be an 'atrocity'