Discussion Title: Are exorbitant transfer fees in football (soccer) unethical?

1. Exorbitant transfer fees in football \(soccer\) are ethical.
1.1. Pro: If transfer fees didn't exist players would receive higher wages instead.
1.2. Pro: Removing them will damage agents and related industry.
1.2.1. Con: Football clubs often put themselves at financial risk trying to be competitive.
1.2.2. Con: The money can be better spent on infrastructure or reducing ticket prices.
1.2.2.1. Pro: Costs are passed on to ordinary supporters, meaning not everybody can afford to enjoy the sport live.
1.3. Con: Transfer fees are an avenue for corruption.
1.3.1. Pro: High profile players such as [Neymar](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2017/may/04/neymar-trial-fraud-barcelona-santos) have been involved in corruption charges associated with transfer fees.
1.3.2. Pro: With so much money at play, it is highly probable that those involved will find ways to twist the system to their advantage.
1.4. Pro: Poorer clubs benefit when they sell players on for fees.
1.5. Con: Transfer fees for footballers are perverse in a world full of poverty
1.6. Con: Transfer fees enable rewards without merit.
1.6.1. Pro: Agents who have had no part in player development become rich with minimal contribution.
1.6.2. Pro: Wealthier football clubs gain an unfair advantage.
1.7. Pro: Football clubs need to be compensated for the time and effort taken when developing players.
1.8. Con: Transfer fees have negative effects on individual players.
1.8.1. Pro: Large fees can inflate players' egos.
1.8.2. Pro: Players are put under pressure if they have large fees.
1.9. Con: -> See 1.2.2.1.
1.10. Pro: They fees paid are determined by the market. If a club is willing to spend £X million on a player then it is because both parties are happy that this deal is fair. In this sense it is as ethical as much as market economics is ethical.
1.11. Con: Putting a monetary price on humans is unethical.
1.11.1. Con: The transfer fee is compensation for ending a contract early; factors affecting the fee include how long the contract had left to run. It's therefore not correct to term this purely as a value placed on the player themselves.
1.12. Pro: Discussions about potential fees make football more exciting.