Discussion Title: Brexit: Is The UK Going To Regret The Referendum?

1. Brexit was a good choice for the UK.
1.1. Pro: It was a good choice simply because that's what people voted for.
1.1.1. Con: [Statistically speaking](https://www.thenewman.co.uk/blogs/research/brexit-remainers-vs-leavers), Pro-Brexit posts are significantly more likely to contain spelling and grammatical errors; inferring a trend towards lower literacy among proponents of this perspective.
1.1.1.1. Pro: It could be argued on this fact alone that this is a classist issue where "educated people" \(mid to high class [correlates with education](https://www.theguardian.com/education/2017/nov/21/english-class-system-shaped-in-schools)\) have become detached from the needs of the less educated ones \(most likely poor\). EU is great for the people that can actually afford traveling frequently and don't want to think about visas and paperwork too much.
1.1.1.2. Con: Just because someone is "educated" doesn't mean they know anything about international trading organisations or supranational governance. With this broad usage of "education" in mind, it's possible that the correlation is not caused by level of education but the demographic who tend to receive a higher standard of education, or the because of the attitude higher education inculcates.
1.1.1.3. Con: Even if this were true, it does not support the case for Remain. In our democracy, the value of our vote is not measured by the extent of our education. The EU has largely benefited the better off \(presumably better educated on average\) and disproportionately harmed the less well off \(presumably less well educated\).
1.1.1.4. Con: This is an ad-hominem attack, so cannot be taken in itself as evidence for or against the pro-Brexit argument.
1.1.1.4.1. Con: It is not an attack on the voters who supported Leave to point out that they are less well educated than those who voted Remain. It is simply fact. Studies have shown that University graduates are more likely to have voted Remain. This suggests that better education may have given us a different result. The obvious misinformation that was disseminated to win the Leave argument backs this narrative, as educated \(i.e. informed\) voters would have voted differently.
1.1.2. Con: Those who have always been against it still believe it is a bad thing and many of those who voted for it are not going to get what they think they voted for - immigration was a huge misunderstood factor in decision making and unlikely to satisfy the masses.
1.1.3. Con: A decision by majority vote does not necessarily mean it is a good decision.
1.1.3.1. Pro: It was barely a real 'Majority' anyway, less than 4%.
1.1.3.2. Pro: The slim 'majority' has now divided the country and left nearly half the voters with the impression that their opinion is being ignored, as hard-line Brexiters rush and push to a 'Hard Brexit' that even few 'Leavers' understood the consequences of when they put their cross in the box to leave.
1.1.3.3. Pro: If David Cameron had held a referendum "should every citizen of the UK be given a million pounds?" there would have been a large majority in favour. That doesn't mean it would have been a good idea.
1.1.3.4. Pro: What the people voted for isn't necessarily going to stop them from regretting leaving the EU.
1.1.3.5. Pro: The correlation between "what people vote for" and "good choice" is shown to be flawed in history, when evil dictators have risen to power through the popular vote.
1.1.3.5.1. Con: The people should be trusted with their own vote. Whether they are voting against whatever incumbent they don't like or for some decision they might not see every consequence of, the inviolability of a vote is paramount to our society. Nobody is going to remove this right on the basis of past mistakes.
1.1.3.5.1.1. Con: This however doesn't mean that the public should be trusted with matters that fall far out of the majorities reach.
1.1.4. Con: The populations of Scotland and Northern Ireland voted against Brexit. [EU Referendum Results - bbc.co.uk](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/politics/eu_referendum/results)
1.1.5. Con: It's only what 52% of the electorate voted for, which doesn't even include under 18's.
1.1.5.1. Pro: Under 18s are going to be the ones more affected; they deserved more of a voice.
1.1.6. Con: Since the terms were not clear, it is entirely unclear what the people voted for. Hence the frustration with single market and customs union which were not on the ballot.
1.1.6.1. Pro: The Leave vote was driven by emotional arguments about regaining sovereignty. Very few who voted to leave understood the complexities arising from this decision, e.g. how to preserve Good Friday Agreement.
1.2. Pro: The EU created more bureaucracy than actual advantages. The entire EU project was to create a "platform" to share closed connections and drive business; instead, it ended up with a group of strong central powers ruling on the sovereignty of other countries.
1.2.1. Pro: The EU fails to acknowledge any criticism which in turn has led to events in Southern Europe. This is likely to lead to the collapse of the EU; better to be on a lifeboat than a sinking ship.
1.2.1.1. Con: It is not better to be in a lifeboat than on a sinking ship. The advice in case of disaster at sea is 'Stay with the parent craft, until foundering is immanent'. There is no reason to leave an EU that still delivers real value; it is better to remain and work to fix the problems.
1.2.1.2. Con: Corruption and bad policies in southern Europe led to events in southern Europe and the limits of the single currency made repairing the damage much more difficult. The UK is not part of the single currency so this is irrelevant to Brexit.
1.2.1.3. Con: There is no evidence to support the above claim objectively.
1.2.2. Con: Sovereignty is not lost in a political union of countries, but shared. As a member of the EU, Britain gets a say on environmental protections in other countries like France and Poland for the good of the whole union. This reduces the impact of pollution damaging our air quality or reaching our shores.
1.2.3. Con: The origins of the EU can be traced to post-war efforts to make further European conflict impossible.
1.2.4. Con: That is a very broad statement to make - the bureaucracy:benefits ratio is incredibly complex to measure. To name some EU initiatives that would have created both:

Science funding scheme
Arts grants
Appliance safety regulations

These are just three of the many others, each with their own result in the ratio. While the statement might be right, it might also be wrong - but is so difficult to measure it shouldn't be a main source of information to instigate action.
1.2.5. Con: The EU does not suspend national sovereignty. The EU law is supreme in the UK only because the UK Parliament decided this would be more advantageous. As soon as the UK Parliament decides otherwise the EU law will no longer be applied. Hence the question is not about sovereignty, but about cost-benefit analysis.
1.2.5.1. Con: This is factually incorrect. According to EU treaties, there are 4 policy areas where the EU has "exclusive competency" \(Competiton, Fisheries, Commercial Policy and Customs Union\). Only the EU can legislate in these areas. There are a further 11 areas of "shared competency" where member states are prevented from enacting new legislation if it contradicts existing EU legislation. The EU can legislate in a further 10 policy areas - but only in these 10 can member states override EU legislation.
1.2.6. Con: Many regulations that may be considered 'bureaucracy' by the UK government greatly benefit the people. For example the European Environment Agency forced the UK government to clean up UK beaches \(that were amongst the worst in Europe\), money they would have almost certainly not spent on the task otherwise. As a result we now have excellent beach and bathing water quality standards.
1.3. Con: UK will always be seen as the country that decided to leave the party. This will impact international relationships.
1.3.1. Pro: Brexit causes frictions with Scotland and Northern Ireland.
1.3.1.1. Pro: Scotland, the spousal neighbour of England, is overwhelmingly pro-EU and has questioned its ties with London and Britain over this decision. An unfavourable Brexit may also trigger further possibilities of an independent Scotland who wishes to remain in the EU.
1.3.1.2. Pro: Britain requires food exports from the Republic of Ireland which is in the EU and can't produce enough food for its population on its own.
1.3.1.3. Pro: It makes no sense for Northern Ireland and a border with over 300 crossing points on road, ignoring farms that cross the border too is unenforceable.
1.3.1.4. Con: Brexit is only a foil for pre-existing tension by professional political agitators.
1.3.1.5. Con: Scotland reduced it's support of the separatist SNP, considerably, in the Scottish elections following Brexit.
[\("The first minister admitted that her call for a second referendum immediately after Brexit was a key factor in the Scottish National party’s loss of 21 of 56 Westminster seats,"\)](http://The first minister admitted that her call for a second referendum immediately after Brexit was a key factor in the Scottish National party’s loss of 21 of 56 Westminster seats,)
1.3.1.5.1. Con: The general election was strongly presented as "Support Theresa May" or "Remove Theresa May". In a First Past The Post system such polarisation makes voting for anyone but the two main parties a greater risk of the "wrong" party winning the seat. People who wanted to prevent Theresa May gaining greater majority tactically voted in the election.
1.3.1.6. Pro: Some people voted Brexit to end freedom of movement between the UK and the EU, which means ending freedom of movement between Ireland and NI. If freedom of movement doesn't end, people will not get the restrictions they hoped for. If they did, it would be a problem for those in NI and Ireland.
1.3.2. Pro: Being in the EU helps us negotiate on the world stage with the weight of 300M people and the cost of negotiation spread across 27 countries. Unilateral negotiation of deals alone represents only 60M people and the deal renegotiated 27 times.
1.3.3. Pro: There is strength in numbers. This is particularly important when traditional alliances are fraying. Instead of dumping the EU the UK should have been more actively working to fix its faults.
1.3.4. Con: The United Kingdom exercised a legal right through Article 50 to leave the European Union. It didn't walk away without warning or mechanism. The decision to leave was well telegraphed with David Cameron going to the EU prior to calling the referendum seeking renegotiations. Future relationships will be impacted insofar as it's clear the United Kingdom won't stand for intransigence but not because it is seen as duplicitous or pusillanimous.
1.3.5. Pro: The UK has always had a privileged position within the EU, with special rules that do not apply to other member states. Leaving a strong economic block will weaken the negotiation position of the country and will leave it more vulnerable to unfair conditions from other giants such as the USA and China.[en.m.wikipedia.org](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom_renegotiation_of_European_Union_membership,_2015–16)
1.3.6. Con: There are 28 countries "at the party" and 167 who have never been invited. Many countries outside the EU see it as protectionist. Leaving will help us build closer relationships with these countries.
1.3.6.1. Con: Most countries with advanced economies are in the European Union or have an established trade agreement with the EU. New negotiations would need to take place which may not be of as much benefit to the UK. [World economic outlook April 2018](http://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/NGDPDPC\@WEO/OEMDC/ADVEC/WEOWORLD)
1.3.6.2. Con: "Protectionist" is a positive if you are currently a member. Protections to safeguard jobs and workers rights against cheap imports from 3rd world nations who disregard workers rights and safety in order to gain competitive advantage.
1.4. Con: If any, it's going to take a lot of time before seeing the economic benefits.
1.4.1. Pro: The GBP will likely lose value in order to sustain trade.
1.4.2. Pro: In the case of a "no deal" scenario, there is cliff edge risk. This will cost much more than any plausible and more optimistic benefit driven by Brexit.
1.4.3. Pro: It is hard to see how one could think that leaving an economic system that brought peace for over 50 years could bring any good.
1.4.3.1. Con: There is no evidence the EU, as opposed to NATO, has brought peace.
1.4.3.2. Con: The EU is, unfortunately, much more than an economic system.
1.4.3.3. Con: With the EU becoming "an ever closer union" it is not unthinkable that in maybe 50-100 years the EU will become a fully sovereign country. If that is something someone does not see as a positive thing, one might be right to consider leaving.
1.4.3.4. Con: This seems an irrelevant point to the UK leaving unless there is concern that the EU27 will go to war with the UK, or vice versa.
1.4.3.5. Con: Arguably, EU actions contibuted to the wars in the former Yugoslavia and more recently the civil war in Ukraine. Within the EU we have had terrorism in Spain and the UK.
1.4.4. Pro: The global markets feel this financially as London, a leading global financial centre, is likely to diminish in its influence and posture. The flow of global funds may begin to find new harbours outside of the isolated London.
1.4.5. Pro: The advantage of the European Union and the single market is that it provides British companies with a much larger market for sales which will no longer be available under the same conditions. To sell into Europe will require Britain to pay unilaterally for the cost of developing standards and demonstrating compliance with EU standards.
1.4.6. Con: This is pure supposition.
1.4.7. Pro: The UK [has already lost](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/news/brexit-uk-economy-office-for-budget-responsibility-no-deal-gdp-investment-inflation-a8579306.html) £500 million a week due to the decline in GDP growth relative to what it would have been if the vote hadn't occurred.
1.4.8. Pro: The UK is harming its economic and diplomatic relationship with its largest trading partner.
1.4.9. Pro: The UK does not know what its doing. The reason why 'Pound' was so strong, was because big enterprises like Michelin, HSBC have their main europe Headquarters there. Brexiting will cause loss of 1000's of jobs and the main companies headquarters moving to France and Germany. Sources : [www.thisismoney.co.uk](https://www.thisismoney.co.uk/money/news/article-1548891/Michelin-to-close-British-factory.html), [www.standard.co.uk](https://www.standard.co.uk/news/uk/bmw-to-shut-uk-mini-factory-for-one-month-immediately-after-brexit-amid-nodeal-fears-a3939061.html),[www.economist.com](https://www.economist.com/britain/2018/01/13/how-will-british-firms-replace-departing-european-workers),[www.theguardian.com](https://www.theguardian.com/news/2018/oct/04/will-nissan-stay-once-britain-leaves-sunderland-brexit-business-dilemma)
1.4.10. Con: There are other factors to consider, not just economic ones.
1.5. Con: Brexit has inspired far-right movements in Europe.
1.5.1. Pro: Hate crime and racial violence has surged since the Referendum [thelondoneconomic.com](https://www.thelondoneconomic.com/news/hate-crime-surged-since-brexit-vote/17/10/)
1.5.2. Con: Far right movements were [present before Brexit](http://time.com/4075396/far-right-politics-rise-europe/), and seem to be more associated with frustrations regarding EU policy.
1.5.3. Pro: Far-right groups all over Europe [celebrate](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/brexit-eu-referendum-latest-far-right-celebrations-news-marine-le-pen-a7101371.html) the victory of the Brexit vote.
1.5.4. Con: It is true that the rise of far right groups stems from some of the same feelings of disenfranchisement that led to Brexit. However Brexit is a democratic decision that will address those negative feelings in positive, constructive way and will actually defuse the rise of the far right in the UK rather than promote it.
1.5.4.1. Pro: UKIP collapsed during and after the 2017 UK general election on a similar basis.
1.6. Pro: The EU has put in it's copyright bill. [youtube.com](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hP3HJ1YYrgs) this includes article 11 \(link tax\) and 13 \(upload filter\) which will greatly affect how we use the internet; This is reason enough to leave the EU
1.6.1. Con: The UK is likely to support this kind of measure even outside the EU, as it has previously indicated.
1.6.1.1. Con: But the democratic chain of command between the UK and its citizen is closer, so even if legislation is to be expected both in Europe and the UK, its democratic legitimacy is greater in the UK.
1.7. Con: Promises made before the referendum, such as staying in the Single Market and Customs Union, were reneged on within hours of the result.
1.7.1. Con: This is not about whether Brexit was a good idea; this is about the process by which referendums are supported, educated, and marketed and the accountability of the UK government and its members.
1.7.2. Con: The promises were not made by those who could keep them. Where the public chose to place their trust, and whether this is acceptable, is not an argument for or against Brexit, but a general one of British democracy.
1.7.3. Con: These promises were never made by those with the ability to implement them. Boris Johnson was just leaving the Mayoralty of London at the time, Nigel Farage has never sat in Parliament and Michael Gove at the time was Justice Secretary. The spirit of the referendum was very much to leave the institutions that exercise control over UK sovereignty, such as the Single Market \(with the ECJ by extension\) along with the European Governmental bodies.
1.8. Pro: In the long term it will provide economical value to the UK.
1.8.1. Pro: Leaving the EU will provide lots of well paid UK jobs, paid by UK tax payers, as we duplicate existing things like the medicines agency, nuclear safety, air safety etc, as well as provide lots of work for lawyers who will need to re-write a lot of contracts. Duplicated British Jobs for British People paid for by increasing British Taxes.
1.8.1.1. Con: Having to spend money duplicating work is a net economic loss. The money would be better spent creating new opportunities, rather than trying to make up for the loss of old ones.
1.8.1.2. Con: These services did not need duplication; and arguably if duplicated cannot function as well as the original, collaborative and integrated ones. Duplicating them will take time, leaving disorder \(cost, time\) in the meantime. Furthermore, medicines, aircraft and other products are only made by finite producers. These producers will align to the bigger market, not our peculiar, smaller one, because it will make no financial sense for them to do so. So we will have access to fewer or worse services.
1.8.2. Con: The UK economy is fairing badly and economic experts are warning that reversing Brexit is the way to solve that, not continuing.
[The OECD suggestions](http://uk.businessinsider.com/oecd-report-uk-economy-brexit-2017-10?r=US&IR=T)
[The Indepedent's review of current statistics and trends](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/comment/brexit-economy-exports-gdp-records-not-what-leave-voters-wanted-a7993426.html)
1.8.3. Con: OECD report suggests that Brexit with no deal \(as the current outlook appears to be\) would cost £40bn in lost growth by 2019. It will take a long time to see that recovered.
1.9. Con: The referendum was not legally binding. The House of Commons Library holds on record briefing paper 07212 that states the brexit referendum "does not contain any requirement to implement the results" and further confirms that "the UK does not have constitutional provisions which would require the results of a referendum to be implemented."
1.9.1. Pro: France, Denmark and Ireland all had referendums and voted against EU treaties. The governments of the day ignored the outcome and went against the will of the people to remain in EU.
1.9.2. Con: The [official government leaflet on the referendum](https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/515068/why-the-government-believes-that-voting-to-remain-in-the-european-union-is-the-best-decision-for-the-uk.pdf) stated "This is your decision. The Government will implement what you decide.". As an aside, the 1975 referendum on continued membership of the EEC [was also advisory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Referendum_Act_1975#The_Act).
1.9.3. Con: It is claimed that Cameron promised the people that the government would act immediately on the result.
1.9.4. Pro: See section 5 of the briefing paper on the referenfum. This is what was voted on by MPs and comes from concern that referendums typically have safeguards to prevent the situation we are in now. Another common safeguard is to require a qualified majority, which would have given a much clearer message than the 52:48 result we had.
[Parliament briefing note CBP-7212](http://researchbriefings.parliament.uk/ResearchBriefing/Summary/CBP-7212)
To later make the referendum binding is a bait and switch.
1.10. Pro: The UK will have more freedom and sovereignty to make decisions that will make a difference, without vetting of the EU.
1.10.1. Pro: The UK will no longer be under the authority of the European Courts and legislation made locally will have primacy. This will increase the power of democratic decisions and foster democratic involvement.
1.10.1.1. Con: This will result in the loss of vital protections and human rights that are enforced by the European Courts.
1.10.2. Con: The complexity and depth of the UK's relationship with its closest trading partners is reflected in laws and regulations. Without them - every interaction has friction. The benefits of common laws and regulations are massive and tangible, whereas 'sovereignty' is subjective and ill-defined
1.10.3. Con: The UK will have less influence internationally, hence less influence over matters that make a difference.
1.10.4. Con: Stepping out of the EU will likely result in a trade-deal like that of Norway; they are very costly and come with a lot of [similar restrictions](https://www.economist.com/britain/2018/03/22/theres-something-fishy-about-britains-brexit-transition-deal) to being in the EU. So basically the only real difference that results of Brexit, is that the UK no longer has a vote regarding European issues. Issues that clearly do concern the UK.
1.10.5. Pro: UK would get more sovereignty of their own borders again, getting to be more selective of who can come into their country.
1.10.5.1. Pro: With no more open border policy there would be less immigration; less immigration means citizens will have less competition for jobs.
1.10.5.1.1. Con: Research has indicated that immigration has little impact on jobs and wages.
1.10.5.2. Con: The UK needs migrants for its economy and NHS, and replacing Europeans with South Asians and Africans is unlikely to please racists and xenophobes.
1.10.5.3. Con: The UK government has complete control over non-EU migration, yet has done little to limit it. There is no reason to think that this would change post-Brexit, in fact restrictions may be relaxed to encourage skilled workers to come.
1.10.5.4. Con: UK immigration policy is driven by xenophobia and racism, so loss of freedom of movement is only likely to make it worse. [www.bbc.com](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-43364331)
1.10.5.5. Con: UK citizens will lose their freedom of movement rights as well, limiting their ability to travel and live/work in other countries.
1.10.5.6. Con: Complete loss of freedom of movement rights would result in a flood of over a million UK citizens being forced to return, many of them elderly and homeless and in need of expensive care.
1.10.6. Pro: Wouldn't have to pay [12+/-billions a year](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/pa/article-4894658/How-does-UK-pay-EU.html) to the EU, which means less tax for taxpayers.
1.10.6.1. Con: This is simply incorrect. Brexit is more likely to lead to [tax hikes](https://www.cnbc.com/2016/06/15/brexit-could-lead-to-tax-hikes-and-spending-cuts-warns-uk-finance-minister.html) and reduced spending than reduced taxes.
1.10.6.2. Con: We will have to pay far more to replicate all of the stuff we get in return for our EU membership fees.
1.10.6.3. Con: The UK will continue to pay much of that, to cover existing commitments and for access to organisations and schemes that it needs.
1.10.6.4. Con: This figure, along with the £350m/week from the famous Brexit Bus, has been widely discredited.
1.10.7. Pro: The UK would get full rights to [their own fishing waters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Fisheries_Policy), and won't have to toss out[tons of dead fish](https://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/787557/eu-common-fisheries-policy-125000-dumping-sea-bass-fixed-quota-allocation-fishing) just because they were the wrong kind of fish/went over the quota of fish they could catch.
1.10.7.1. Con: These EU strictures exist for a reason. Overfishing is a serious issue and the UK will still have to enforce some limits.
1.10.7.2. Con: The UK will lose access to EU fishing waters unless it trades away some of its own, so won't ultimately end up any better off.
1.10.7.3. Con: Fish move around, and outside the EU the UK will have greatly reduced ability to protect areas where fish mature before moving to UK waters where they can be caught.
1.10.8. Pro: A small sovereign country can make quick decisions and be more flexible. In a fast changing world this is more beneficial to the citizens of that country then being part of a massive union where your voice is one of many. A good example is New Zealand.
1.10.8.1. Con: Stability is good for citizens, especially workers who rely on strong employment rights. Flexibility usually just means taking away important rights and protections.
1.10.8.2. Con: The UK is a small land mass, but it has a high populated and is a G8 country. It has power, influence and agility already. If it remained part of the EU, it could exert that power and influence on the largest trading bloc in the world whilst also retaining the benefits of freedom of movement of goods and labour within that bloc. Freedoms that lower prices, increase standards and increase opportunity.
1.10.9. Pro: The EU is not a democratic institution. Only the unelected European Commission can decide the agenda, by proposing legislation. The European Parliament can only slow down their agenda by vetoing it - they cannot stop the agenda, and certainly cannot change it. The Commission is always resubmitting its rejected proposals under different wording, and it only takes one successful vote to secure it forever, regardless of how many failed votes beforehand. The UK has dodged a terrible bullet.
1.10.10. Con: Currently, Parliamentary sovereignty is being subverted by the Government, not the EU. Parliament's power to block no-deal and even to reverse Brexit \(which has a Parliamentary majority\) is being usurped.
[British Parliament must reassert its sovereignty and reverse Brexit](https://www.irishtimes.com/opinion/british-parliament-must-reassert-its-sovereignty-and-reverse-brexit-1.3251160)
1.10.10.1. Con: However, Parliament voted to trigger Article 50, when they could have voted against. We have sufficient legal protection and independence in our courts, in the House of Lords and even in the House of Commons to ensure the government cannot ignore Parliament.
1.10.11. Pro: The number of areas of policy where the EU has competency to make laws has steadily grown over time from 11 areas in the original 1957 Treaty of Rome, to 27 areas at the Treaty of Lisbon. This represents a gradual shift in sovereignty away from the UK parliament and towards the EU institutions.
1.10.11.1. Con: Lots of these areas of competence establish global standards, by dint of the sheer size of the EU, and we are leaving the table where it is decided, and so will necessarily become a rule taker not a rule maker.
1.10.11.2. Con: With full agreement and the option to veto from the UK at every step.
1.10.12. Con: Sovereignty is an emotive term - in reality, no nation is truly sovereign as it is constrained by multiple supranational treaties, designed, like the EU, for the common good.
1.10.12.1. Con: Common good is an emotive term - in reality, the intent of design of a supranational treaty will not necessarily correlate with its actual results, and in fact it might be an obstacle since fervent actions taken with emotion might be difficult to let go by its proponents even when facing failure multiple times.
1.10.12.2. Con: Sovereignty is a real thing. It is the thing which you use to create and agree to relationships.  All wills \(individual or group\) are sovereign since it is only that will that can decide if it WILL honor the agreements it has made in the past in the now and into the future.
1.10.13. Con: This may be mitigated as we sign new trade deals, each with its own demands and restrictions.
1.10.14. Pro: The EU leaders are not elected by the British people and should not dictate over them.
1.10.14.1. Con: Members of the European Parliament are elected and have the right to govern over all countries in the EU, not just Britain.
1.10.14.2. Con: All EU leaders are either directly elected \(MEPs, heads of state\) or appointed by elected officials.
1.11. Pro: The UK will have more freedom to negotiate trade deals. The EU has not being proactive enough at this.
1.11.1. Con: The UK's trades with the EU account for [more than 40%](https://fullfact.org/europe/uk-eu-trade/) of the exports.
1.11.2. Con: The EU has just signed a huge trade deal with Japan which we will soon no longer benefit from. This trade deal could create greater incentives for Japanese countries to invest in the EU27 rather than Britain. If we do not replicate the EU trade deal with Japan, "we could clearly see investment flowing to countries in the single market." [theguardian.com](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2018/jul/18/what-future-for-britain-as-the-eu-strikes-a-trade-deal-with-japan)
1.11.3. Con: It appears that the ruling Conservative party in the UK is still split over Brexit, as evidenced by the reaction to the Prime Minister's proposals. A divided Government will find it difficult to negotiate favourable terms.
1.11.4. Con: The UK will lose the freedom to trade with the largest trading bloc in the world; or will have to re-negotiate that at a greater cost than already exists.
1.11.5. Con: Currently, any new trade deals will be signed while the UK has a significantly smaller economy and therefore weaker negotiating stance. The UK will have freedom to negotiate different trade deals, but they may well be worse than what we can achieve from within the EU.
[US/UK relations over Bombardier](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2017/oct/06/us-escalates-trade-dispute-with-uk-and-canada-over-bombardier-jets)
1.11.5.1. Con: Bombardier is a Canadian company, not a UK one.
1.11.6. Pro: Within the EU, trade deals have to be ratified by all member states. For some states, [this also implies ratification by regional parliaments within the states](https://www.ft.com/content/df6841f4-113e-3b56-9559-61bcc6c3ed11). This need for unanimity necessarily means that negotiations take longer and are less tailored towards the specific needs of individual member states.
1.11.7. Pro: It provides an opportunity to sign stronger trade deals with the US.
1.11.7.1. Con: The US is becoming more isolationist in its trade policies.
1.11.7.2. Con: The UK outside of the EU has less to offer the US in both market size and geopolitical influence. Thus it will get less favorable terms than as part of the EU.
1.12. Pro: The NHS will have more budget.
1.12.1. Con: Any increase in NHS spending will have to come from heavier taxation. The Tories are ideologically opposed to that, even though they have pledged to increase NHS spending substantially, it is unlikely to actually happen. After Brexit the economy will take a large hit, each individual citizen will be poorer by even more than the average £600 a year each loss since the Brexit referendum, and there will be no 'Brexit Bonus' when we leave.[No Brexit Bonus](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/no-theresa-isnt-giving-nhs-12726157) [Increasing National Poverty](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/news/brexit-uk-economy-losses-eu-referendum-result-billions-leave-european-union-a8081841.html)
1.12.2. Con: While that was a major campaign pledge, Farage & Johnson both quickly backpedalled after 'winning' and said it was not something they could promise.
1.12.3. Con: Any economic slow-down due to Brexit would reduce tax receipts for the government, restricting the country's budget and reducing funding for the NHS.[ft.com](https://www.ft.com/content/7658ec98-202f-11e7-b7d3-163f5a7f229c)
1.12.4. Con: The budget for the NHS could be increased or reduced regardless of our membership of the EU.
1.12.5. Con: The promise of £350M to NHS is just not true.
1.12.5.1. Pro: There is no evidence that any saved money \(if any even exists\) is going toward a budget for the NHS.
1.12.5.2. Con: The famous bus did not claim that £350m would go to the NHS. It said: "We send the EU £350 a week. Let's fund the NHS instead". This conveyed that we could use our EU contributions to increase funding to the NHS and other similar good causes, not that all savings would go directly to the NHS. Remember - it was a slogan written on the side of a bus; there was no room for a detailed, comprehensive spending plan for the £350 million.
1.13. Con: Many people did not realise the complexity of such a decision.
1.13.1. Pro: The Brexit debate was highjacked by populists, who used emotional non-factual arguments regarding immigration, the NHS and sovereignty to mobilise support in large sections of the population, who are typically disengaged. Without this wilful misleading, the remain vote would have prevailed. Wide participation in politics is vital for democracy, however this needs to be supported by education in critical thinking and unbiased data & media, to enable people to make reasoned choices.
1.13.1.1. Con: Emotional, non-factual arguments were widely used on both sides of the debate - not just the Leave side. It is not reasonable to assume that one side was influenced by this "wilful misleading" more than the other.
1.13.2. Pro: There is no single interpretation of the "Leave" vote which truly represents the tiny majority that voted "Leave". Therefore, any particular Brexit strategy is likely to fragment the "Leave" voters into minorities.
1.13.2.1. Con: Equally, there are a range of views on the future of the EU on the Leave side, from committed federalists, to natural eurosceptics who voted out of fear of the unknown. The referendum campaign presented many different views on the future. People weighed these up to the best of their ability and the majority settled on Leave.
1.13.2.2. Pro: In spite of many claims today that "Brexit means Brexit" and "Of course Leave means leaving the Customs Union and Single Market". There was a lot of talk from prominent Leave campaigners at the time of the referendum about the Norway Model and about remaining in the single market.
1.13.3. Pro: With the benefit of hindsight, it would have been better if the referendum had been the final seal of approval after all of the complicated negotiations. Then we'd have known what we were voting for or against. As things stand, the majority of leave voters will be disappointed when their particular vision of Brexit does not come to pass. There will be widespread discontent among remainers and leavers alike. No one wins.
1.13.3.1. Con: [It was](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-eu-referendum-35622105). The EU refused any further negotiation [until article 50 was triggered](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2016/oct/03/eu-commission-still-refuses-uk-talks-before-article-50-triggered).
1.13.3.2. Pro: There is increased clarity now on what Brexit would actually mean; the complexity and difficulty and problems are honestly laid out for anyone to see. As far as public opinion is concerned, that is a new political context; a context in which the initial vote didn't happen. Given the new clarity of the situation, a lot of minds may have been changed. Even in general terms \(let alone any specific practicalities\) Brexit may now represent a minority.
1.13.3.2.1. Con: It may now represent a minority. It may be unchanged. It may now represent an increased majority. This is pure speculation and does not support the argument one way or the other.
1.13.3.3. Con: With the benefit of hindsight, all manner of different things could have happened. Not the least of which, the duration between announcing the referendum and holding it would have enabled adequate time for the country to reflect on the decision it was going to make. Also with the benefit of hindsight, the question could have been clearer, a threshold could have been set, an independent body could have fact-checked both sides of the argument. Either way, hindsight in this argument is irrelevant.
1.13.4. Con: These people primarily voted to remain.
1.13.5. Pro: There are more than 40 years of legislation and institutions to undo or rebuild. It just can't be done in two years, and all that time spent. Simply converting all EU laws to EU laws goes against the very reason to leave.
1.13.5.1. Pro: There are over three million Europeans in UK, and over one million UK citizens in the EU left with little guarantees at this point. All discussions on this topic are still at embryonic stage and create uncertainty.
1.13.5.1.1. Con: Both Brits on the mainland and EU citizens in Britain will be able to remain where they are. No government has the time or resources to deal with legal action against them by hundreds of thousands of individuals who would lose out financially and socially were they to have to leave. This issue will be settled with a form and a government stamp.
1.13.5.1.1.1. Con: People may well be the victim of government neglect. The legal challenges may materialize only if the governments \(on both sides\) allow them through legislation. Other than that once the UK withdraws, in absence of other legally binding agreement, the rights of EU/UK citizens are automatically withdrawn as well.
1.13.5.1.2. Con: The [EU-UK joint statement of 8th December](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/sites/beta-political/files/joint_report.pdf) clarifies in detail how the rights of EU citizens in the UK and UK citizens in the EU will be protected.
1.13.5.2. Con: Transferring the legislation into UK law is a pragmatic, transitional measure to ensure continuity. Once the UK has left the EU, each law can be scrutinised by the UK parliament and modified, left untouched or repealed as we see fit and in our own time. This is the very essence of "taking back control".
1.13.6. Pro: Those commanding the 'Leave' campaign seem to regret it.
1.13.6.1. Pro: All of the main players in the campaign to leave deserted the ship on hearing the result but continue to snipe from the sidelines without taking responsibility for their actions. There should be a final vote put to the people on any deal reached, because the people that fought for Brexit are no longer in a position to dictate terms for the exit deal.
1.13.7. Con: The complexity of the decision has no bearing on whether it was a good choice.
1.13.8. Con: It is up to the individual to ensure that they are well informed, educated and capable of making such a decision. Sufficient time was made for debate, research and questions to be asked. A reasonably capable person would not trust propaganda nor hearsay. Ultimately, if on decision day each individual did not feel equipped to make the choice, then they could abstain from voting, if required, rather than voting at random or using instinct for such an important event.
1.13.8.1. Con: The reality of Brexit was unknowable given its dependency on the unfolding of complex negotiations both within the UK and between the UK and the EU. As these have developed a clearer sense of the form and implications of Brexit is emerging and people should have the chance to base their choice for the UK’s future on this information that did not exist at the time of the 2016 referendum.
1.13.9. Pro: We elect representatives to do the right thing for the country as a whole and with a long term perspective, not the most popular thing. They should not have outsourced this complex decision to the the general public who were always more likely to vote in an emotional and short term way.