Discussion Title: Can success in gaming be a factor in measuring educational success?

1. Success in games would be a good metric for redefining educational achievement.
1.1. Pro: There are thousands of games on hundreds of different topics and types. This type of diversity in the market would allow for more specificity in how the students learn than the one-size-fits-all schooling of today.
1.2. Pro: Many school subjects are in dire need of innovative approaches, in particular maths and other STEM subjects. There is now a compelling body of evidence to support new approaches to school and college maths, such as gaming, in order to build young people’s confidence, interest and practical skills. Apps and games can encourage players to think mathematically and [use everyday numeracy](https://www.nationalnumeracy.org.uk/news/new-app-helps-address-gap-between-school-and-real-life-maths) to tackle embedded number problems \(relating to time, money, percentages, measurements, angles and estimation\).
1.2.1. Pro: Don't play a game to teach math and science.  Create the game to teach math and science.
1.3. Pro: A variety of students are finding success in this gaming environment, including those with ADHD, those who are gifted, and those who struggle in traditional settings.
1.4. Pro: Games reward students for learning from failures instead of penalizing all mistakes, encouraging creative thinking.
1.4.1. Pro: One trial by the Institute for the Future involved participants in a doomsday scenario, and they created over 500 unique solutions.
1.4.2. Pro: By the time students get their grades, it's too late for mistakes to be corrected.
1.5. Con: The infrastructure necessary to allow all students to game would be very costly.
1.5.1. Con: The Indian government built tablets, selling for $30, for educational use.
1.6. Con: The engaging element of gaming comes from voluntary, as opposed to mandatory, participation.
1.7. Pro: This would cultivate and promote creative and technological thinking.
1.7.1. Con: Games hardly teach anything about technology; they are meant to provide an entertaining experience.
1.7.1.1. Con: That something is meant to do one task does not mean that it cannot fulfill other roles.