Discussion Title: Caste based affirmative action (reservation) in India

1. Caste based affirmative action (reservation) in India
1.1. Pro: Different castes have different needs in society. Assuring adequate quotas for each in the legislature is securing all needs are represented.
1.2. Con: Politicians promise affirmative action to get votes of specific caste defeating the purpose.
1.2.1. Con: If that means discriminated castes can improve their situations, it does not defeat the purpose.
1.2.2. Pro: If politicians design policies only to get more votes, they can betray their democratic mandate of governing for all citizens.
1.2.2.1. Con: Reservations have been designed way back in the late 1940s out of societal needs and not political gains by an apolitical commitee.
1.2.3. Con: It's a good thing that the voices of the repressed classes are heard at least for votes,  in a society where they hold no social or economic power.
1.2.4. Pro: Politicians start seeing citizens on basis of caste and vote bank.
1.3. Con: Sometimes promotes an unqualified or untalented professional, which is very bad for society.
1.3.1. Con: Anyone and everyone who has completed the course and passed the exams is good enough to be a doctor/other important profession. For example, reservations help someone to become a Medical Student. But to become a doctor, he/she has to pass the stipulated exams. Anyone who passes the exam irrespective of their grades or caste is a doctor.
1.3.2. Pro: Talented people may be fed up by the system and leave the country.
1.4. Pro: Protects discriminated sections of society from being denied opportunities of high quality education and job opportunities
1.4.1. Con: Reduces opportunity to the people of general caste though they may be worthy.
1.5. Pro: Improves the economic condition of discriminated sections of society
1.5.1. Con: There are many families where although parents themselves are at higher posts, their children take advantage of reservation.
1.6. Con: Fundamental right to equality is violated.
1.6.1. Pro: Goes against the principle of meritocracy.
1.6.1.1. Con: This ignores the structural factors that can make those in non-discriminated castes more qualified in the first place.
1.6.1.2. Con: 'Merit' in the Indian context is a non-standard concept. It ignores the economic, societal and structural differences among the different classes.
1.6.1.3. Pro: Less worthy people may get better opportunities, while 'general category' people suffer as they have to work harder for the same thing.
1.6.2. Pro: it perpetuates social inequalities
1.7. Pro: Improves social standing of discriminated sections of society who otherwise are forced to do menial jobs at low wages.
1.7.1. Pro: This in turn improves the next generations.
1.8. Con: Caste-based reservation should only be valid till the first person/generation in the family who receive the benefits of that reservation.
1.8.1. Pro: For example, if someone uses the reservation system to gain admission into a government job, the same benefit shouldn't extend to their son/daughter. This is because if they have got reservation benefit once, they are obliged to make the best use out of it and not live idly while hanging on to the concept of reservation as a means of survival.
1.9. Pro: Provides inspiration, mentoring for next generation of children from discriminated sections of society.
1.9.1. Con: Children are taught that they must do more hard work as they belong to a general category, while the reserved category students may take things for granted.
1.9.2. Con: It brings a sense of castism in young minds.
1.10. Con: Reduces opportunities for general category.
1.10.1. Con: In education between 72%-78% seats are available for 'Open Competition' for general category students where as the constitute of only 17-20% of the entire population.
1.10.2. Pro: Competition for 'general category students' is open to everyone, including students from 'reserved category', while for 'reserved category', competition is just among reserved students.
1.10.2.1. Con: That is necessary when there is a considerable power imbalance between two groups.
1.10.3. Pro: Using caste as the basis for reservation is neither just nor efficient. Level of income of the family \(not caste of the family\) is what determines the opportunities a child has. Family income determines for a child what school he goes to, whether he can afford textbooks, whether he can avail after school help\(tution/coaching\), whether he has access to nutritious food for cognitive development. So, family income level should be the prime factor in determining eligibility for affirmative action.
1.11. Con: Reduces competition and hence demotivates hard work.
1.11.1. Con: Hard work and determinations shouldn't be just based on someone's ability to sit and study mostly through rote learning. Surviving and making it through school inspite of numerous discriminatory practices daily for students from scheduled classes is extreme hard work; Both physically and mentally.
1.12. Con: Does not change the attitude of caste discrimination.
1.12.1. Con: Even if affirmative action is not enough to change global social attitudes and discrimination, is a step in the right direction.
1.12.2. Con: If discriminated castes are able to get better education and achieve economic and professional success, that may make people starts changing attitudes towards them.
1.12.3. Con: It is important that enough role models from the repressed classes are built for the younger generation for motivation and respect.
1.12.4. Pro: The poblem of hatred remains same. Poeple grom general category sees other castes with hatered because of the discrimination they suffered in their life.