Discussion Title: Children need boredom.

1. Children need boredom.
1.1. Con: Children should never be bored and should always be doing something productive.
1.1.1. Con: "Something productive" is a pejorative term for many things that may not actually result in any tangible outcome. It would be better for children to engage in something that may result in utter failure if they could learn something.
1.2. Con: Technology has made boredom obsolete, so allowing a child to be bored is depriving them of other skills and traits learned by peers who are never bored.
1.2.1. Con: Some necessary activities are boring, for instance repetitive tasks at work. If they don't learn to cope with boredom, they won't be efficient at those tasks.
1.2.2. Con: Boredom still exists. It always has and it always will. An example would be a 5 year old flipping through 200 channels saying, "There's nothing on TV".
1.3. Pro: Not only do they need it - it is unavoidable. Boredom is part of life. Always has been and always will be.
1.3.1. Con: Humans, including children, have an tendency to avoid boredom because it feels bad. This suggests that individuals avoiding inactivity might have had an evolutionary advantage.
1.4. Pro: Boredom teaches children to be creative.
1.4.1. Pro: Children have to be creative to come up with fun pastimes.
1.4.2. Con: Not necessarily; they can waste time very effectively without resorting to creativity.
1.4.2.1. Pro: If they learned something \(like that something doesn't work\), then it is not wasted time.
1.4.3. Con: Creativity requires external input to be able to manipulate old ideas and come up with new ones. Depriving children from novel stimulation through boredom will negatively impact children's creative and problem solving abilities. [amazon.com](https://www.amazon.com/Runaway-Species-human-creativity-remakes/dp/1936787520)
1.5. Pro: Boredom is simply your mind and body's way of saying "do something" similar to how loneliness is way for the body and mind to say "go out at interact with other beings." How you react to those indicators is up to you, but it is a normal part of human functionality.
1.5.1. Con: The fact that something is normal does not imply that it's needed. You don't need to be bored because it's normal, just like you don't need to be in pain because it's normal.
For example: pain is just your body's way of saying 'warning: danger/damage'. how you react to those indicators is up to you, but it's a normal part of human functionality.
1.6. Con: Boredom can be damaging for children.
1.6.1. Pro: Boredom can be [dangerous](https://psychcentral.com/blog/boredom-can-be-dangerous-for-mental-illness/) for children with mental health issues.
1.6.1.1. Con: It is only dangerous if the child does not respond to the message being sent by the body, which is "do something." Boredom is similar to pain or loneliness. The body is trying to tell the person to take action. It is staying bored or lonely that is harmful, not the emotion itself.
1.6.1.2. Pro: If a child is not taught how to positively respond to the emotion of boredom, they will continue to be in a state of discomfort.
1.6.2. Pro: Childrens' brains need a lot of stimulation, especially in the first couple of years. In the first couple of years children's brains are creating a lot of new neural connection through input from the external world by interacting with it. In a later stage the brain trims everything it doesn't use anymore. Depriving children from stimulation trough boredom negatively impacts their brain's early development.

Sources:
\> [The Brain: with David Eagleman \(documentary\)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLH_nypAO3GE0S7TDsJcqFudX2aebICjP_)
1.6.3. Pro: People would rather [hurt themselves](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2014/jul/03/electric-shock-preferable-to-thinking-says-study) than be bored.
1.7. Pro: When children experience boredom, they learn independence.
1.7.1. Con: That, or they become more dependent on others to distract them from their boredom.
1.7.2. Con: Independence in something depends on one's skills in doing that something. Boredom doesn't necessarily lead to independence, rather it leads to anything to avoid boredom, which can include building skills.
1.8. Con: Bored kids are difficult for working parents to manage.
1.8.1. Con: Parent's ability to manage their bored kids is not relevant as to whether those kids need boredom. For example: children can be quite difficult to manage when they don't want to eat. Children don't need food.
1.9. Con: Bored kids can get into trouble.
1.10. Pro: Bored kids develop new skills.
1.10.1. Con: [This may not be true](http://time.com/3919836/parenting-bored-children/); children at elementary school age need 'a lot of support finding what they are interested in', which means a lot of engagement from parents and peers.
1.10.2. Pro: When kids are bored, they learn coping skills.
1.10.2.1. Pro: Boredom teaches kids to be OK with silence.