Discussion Title: Chinese Infrastructure Investments in Subsaharan Afrika

1. Chinese infrastructure projects played and will play a crucial role in the development of Subsaharan Africa \(SSA\).
1.1. Con: China drives SSA only further into asymmetrical dependencies with China
1.1.1. Con: There will be asymmetrical dependencies in the same way that the relationship between a mother and a child has asymmetrical dependencies. Just as a mother provides much-needed life to a child, China can provide much-needed economic life in SSA.
1.1.1.1. Pro: The dependency between a strong economy and a weaker one will always be asymmetrical in favour of the stronger economy
1.2. Con: Chinese companies often act irresponsibly in SSA countries with little regulation or oversight.
1.2.1. Pro: Mining in Mozambique caused [substantial damage](http://clubofmozambique.com/news/china-dismisses-amnesty-report-on-mozambique-mining-damage/).
1.2.2. Con: The government of China could set up a committee \(if they haven't already\) responsible for apt regulation and oversight of their projects both generally domestically and internationally and specifically to SSA-countries to reduce the likelihood of more accidents and harm done.
1.2.3. Con: Most processes of development cause significant damage. Irresponsible behavior can obviously play a major role in economic development. This is not an argument against the original claim.
1.3. Pro: Expensive large-scale infrastructure projects may not be affordable for local governments and companies without big investments from outside.
1.3.1. Pro: China has been the primary investor into [mega scale](https://moguldom.com/121477/10-mega-infrastructural-projects-in-africa-funded-by-china/2/) infrastructure projects in SSA.
1.3.2. Con: These investments aren't free money. They come in the form of loans with medium to high interest. If the host country defaults on the loan, the property is turned over to China, just like what happened at the Hambantota port in Sri Lanka. [www.nytimes.com](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/12/world/asia/sri-lanka-china-port.html)
1.3.3. Con: The African continent has more than enough resources to make wealthy nations many times over but with a history of corrupt political structures in Africa, especially the scandals of recent in South Africa, China is not helping but making a foothold for their industry, to strengthen their economy and access to raw materials.
1.4. Pro: Chinese companies have brought down the cost of transportation in SSA significantly
1.4.1. Con: The cost of transportation has been brought down only in certain parts of SSA. Mainly the east coast. Even in those parts, where transportation got cheaper thanks to Chinese infrastructure projects, transportation is still expensive. Transportation of one metric ton through Africa is 13 times more expensive than from an American harbour to Mozambique
1.5. Con: China is only interested in bringing the cost of travel and transportation down to create new markets for their own profit
1.5.1. Con: If that in turn profits Subsaharan Africa, it is a good outcome.
1.6. Pro: The cooperation with China will bring know-how to Africa to build infrastructure on their own
1.6.1. Con: China doesn't employ enough African executives or workers to spread know-how
1.6.1.1. Con: Africans will have better knowledge of infrastructure when they have it in their backyards, even if they aren't the ones who work on it.
1.6.1.2. Pro: The best way of learning is to be taught. African companies need to be involved a lot more into the process of developing infrastructure.
1.7. Pro: China will become internationally more competitive which will lead to economic growth
1.7.1. Pro: Both local and international companies can access new markets within SSA.
1.7.1.1. Con: China may exert its influence to limit access to non-Chinese companies to SSA markets.
1.7.2. Con: An internationally more competitive China does not necessarily mean economic growth for SSA, it just means economic growth for China.
1.8. Con: Better infrastructure alone won’t help SSA in the longterm. China needs to invest into innovation to help africa export manufactured goods rather than natural resources and commodities.
1.8.1. Con: In 2015 China offered [30,000](http://www.focac.org/eng/ltda/dwjbzjjhys_1/hywj/t1327961.htm) government scholarships for African students to study in China, and currently hosts [more](https://qz.com/1017926/china-has-overtaken-the-us-and-uk-as-the-top-destination-for-anglophone-african-students/) African students than the US or the UK.
1.8.2. Pro: Better infrastructure will make for more robust markets and generate a significant amount of wealth. This will lead to lower interest rates, which will allow small business to be successful and begin to generate a more robust middle class. While this will not fix all of SSA's problems, it will play a significant role in SSA's development
1.9. Pro: Infrastructure projects create much needed jobs in SSA
1.9.1. Pro: In [10 out of 12 projects](https://csisprosper.com/2015/06/17/chinese-investment-africa-jobs/) local laborers are representing more than 50% of the staff.
1.9.2. Con: China doesn’t involve African workers and companies enough to create sustainable job opportunities. They bring their own workers.
1.9.2.1. Con: It doesn't matter if African labour is not used to construct infrastructure because the main benefit of infrastructure is connectivity that makes it easier to do business, not the actual jobs from construction.
1.10. Pro: US and EU development aid concentrates almost exclusively on financial aid in regard to infrastructural development. Therefore, direct cooperation with Chinese companies is much needed.
1.10.1. Pro: Due to high levels of corruption in many countries, financial aid isn't as effective as direct infrastructure investments
1.10.1.1. Con: Direct infrastructure investments prioritise the interests of the foreign investor, while financial aid is spent by the local government for what it perceives to be the priority.