Discussion Title: Could society function without the use of money?

1. Could society function without the use of money?
1.1. Con: Money is an efficient medium of exchange.
1.1.1. Pro: Money can be divided into components that then can be exchanged.
1.1.1.1. Con: But that still money
1.1.2. Pro: Money, as a medium of exchange, eliminates the barter-system problem of needing a situation where someone who wants exactly what you have and who has exactly what you want before an exchange can take place.
1.1.3. Con: Why do we need a system of exchange?
1.1.3.1. Con: No one can produce all items they need, or provide all services they require. By exchange people may peacefully access goods and services they wouldn't be able to access otherwise.
1.1.3.1.1. Pro: If the goods and services had no financial value and were free, there would be no need to exchange anything for them. They would be available for everyone to access, without cost or limit.
1.1.3.1.1.1. Con: It's pure nonsense. Items have intrinsic value \(bacause of scarcity\), and cost may be incurred without money.
1.1.3.1.1.1.1. Con: But how often do you reckon does the monetary value we ascribe to an item actually reflect only 'scarcity'?
1.1.3.1.1.2. Pro: But why should that value be measured in debt?
1.1.3.1.1.3. Pro: What kind of cost would be incurred?
1.1.3.1.1.3.1. Con: Cost of material. For instance to produce shoes you need leather. Usage of leather is an intrinsic cost of producing shoes.
1.1.3.1.1.3.1.1. Pro: But without money this cost does not exist. It’s a commodity that is created and shared amongst the community when needed. Some of the community create food, some create materials, some provide skills... all without creating debt and passing tokens of perceived value to another person. The value is accepted as the value of contribution , those that cannot contribute in these ways contribute in others.
1.1.3.1.1.3.1.1.1. Con: This cost exists as a physical usage of material. Items are not created, they are transofrmed from the raw material to the end product. The fact that you cannot use the same raw material twice is enough to think of it as cost.
1.1.3.1.1.3.1.1.2. Con: Cost is a use of a resource. It is connected to money only if money is the resource used.
1.1.3.1.1.3.2. Con: Cost of labour. Everyone has basic needs. So if you want to produce shoes, you should do this only, if it will allow you satisfy these needs \(in return for food for instance\). If somebody could take your shoes without giving you anything in return, you couldn't sustain your life.
1.1.3.2. Con: Exchange is a way of maximizing utility.
1.2. Pro: Yes, they could. However, only in the ideal function.
1.2.1. Con: Systems very rarely operate the way they're ideally supposed to; so if a money-less society could only work in the ideal function, than that's essentially the same as saying that it would never realistically work.
1.2.2. Pro: Could their failure, like many failures in society, be attributed to money?
1.3. Pro: If you were stranded on a desert island, would you build a fire, a shelter, find water and food, or develop a debt based financial system
1.3.1. Con: Then I guess we better return to striving for food and shelter instead of posting some funny posts on a virtual website run by a computer that uses energy generating electricity bills that have to be paid contributing to some complex debt-based financial system.
1.3.1.1. Pro: But that’s just lazy thinking. Which is what allows the financial system to profit the few. Too many are too happy to not question it.
1.3.2. Con: Modern society is nothing like a deserted island. In almost any current society you would need a form of currency to have someone build you a house, keep it warm and provide you with water and food.
1.3.2.1. Pro: Need or have? I am questioning why we “need” a form of currency, how does it serve us? We know that everything that has been invented exists and can be produced, distributed and supplied. Why do we need to give something that already exists a monetary value.
1.4. Pro: Money is simply a medium of exchange that represents goods and services. We could function without MONEY, but society would have a hard time functioning without EXCHANGE.
1.5. Con: Not every human can produce or recollect everything nowadays, not enough to survive. Trade emerged as a necessity, so people traded directly according to each one's needs. Problem: the needs, most of the time, are not aligned. Therefore, a mutually agreed upon and valuable resource started to be used: money. Without it societies would never scale to the degree that they are as of today.
1.5.1. Pro: That’s a fair comment. I think the question is, has the use of money, as a facility to trade skills and resource, invited so much corruption as to be counterproductive and place massive financial burden on the majority as they pay more and more middlemen and profiteers. If money were removed we could support those without skills or ability as the cost to do so would not exist.
1.5.1.1. Con: I understand the point, but correcting smaller parts, in the days that we live, would seem like a better option than overhauling the biggest value system ever created.
1.5.2. Pro: Key point in this argument is the fact that societies "would never scale to the degree that they are as of today". This is an argument for a functionality of money in the past. The current function of money is not limited to the ideal purpose money used to serve. Where money used to be currency in chasing norms, values and morality, it now became a goal in and of its own. So the current function of money is not the same as the initial function was.
1.6. Pro: With no cost for materials or talent, the greatest minds and bleeding edge materials would be available to us all, without limit
1.6.1. Con: There is no reason for that. Goods still have intrinsic \(or theoretical\) value, and remain scarce, even without money.
1.6.2. Pro: Their value would remain but would not be measured in financial debt/cost. There are many other ways to value skills and services that do not require a few to profit whilst the masses trade more and more debt between themselves. Availability of resources would also be assisted as cost, or financial reward would not influence a persons motivation to provide them.
1.7. Pro: Without income, there would be no vehicle for personal greed, corruption or theft.
1.7.1. Con: As long as goods remain scarce, greed, corruption, and theft will have their reasons. Money is irrelevant in this respect.
1.7.2. Pro: Goods are only scarce because of money. Some of us throw away food whilst others starve to death. Without cost, everyone would share.
1.7.2.1. Con: It is naive to assume that everyone would share their goods if they had no official cost associated with them.
1.7.2.1.1. Pro: Even without monetary value, people place personal value on goods; and if someone places a higher personal value on something, then they are less likely to want to share it with others.
1.7.2.1.2. Pro: Everyone operates on a different system of beliefs, values, and ethics; so while one can hope that in an ideal money-less world everyone would be willing share their goods, the reality is that many people would be unwilling to give what they have to others without getting something back in return.
1.7.2.2. Con: Goods have intrinsic value because of their scarcity, not because of money.
1.7.2.3. Con: [Cost](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/cost) may be incurred even in non-monetary measures \(as a loss of something\), so it would exist even without money.
1.8. Con: Money is an efficient medium of exchange, and it would be difficult to live without it from now on - even though, in that case, exchange will still exist. We have to keep in mind that money is also a social construction. We can create money, we can change the values and ethics that it conveys. As complementary currencies try to do so in some areas, we could try to reach a more socially fair and environmentally friendly world through it.
1.9. Pro: The “money” that exists in society right now is not real. Most of it is recirculated debt.
1.9.1. Con: The effect of money in society is 'real'
1.9.1.1. Pro: Money are a social construct.
1.9.2. Con: Recirculated debt is the core principle of the way we use money. A baker didn't want his house built and then have to hand out free bread to the builder for the rest of his life. Money brought insight and fairness to exchange of goods and services. In any other way, you would also be indebted to others, only in different ways.
1.9.3. Pro: Why? If I was a baker I’d be happy to give away free bread every day for the rest of my working life if I knew that everyone else was doing the same with their products and skills. For us to really consider the argument that we don’t need money we have to stop thinking of money as a means of reward and trade. We don’t need either. We just need everyone to contribute and then everything is free, to everyone, for ever.
1.10. Con: Eventually someone will want to control society, even without money. That leads to dictatorships.
1.10.1. Con: Carefully reading this argument, it basically states that even though society might not function without the use of money, it's already dysfunctional with the use of money \(some people ARE trying to control society\).
1.10.1.1. Pro: I don’t think society could not function without money. Far from it. I think it could function better without it. However your second point is true, the current monetary system does not work, is susceptible to corruption at almost every level and benefits very few whilst forcing the massive majority to accumulate debt to “pay” for stuff that \(as a group\) we all know how to make and provide already. Who are we paying? And why?
1.11. Con: In the past humanity operated on the ideas of trade and foraging, and while we could go back to that we could not fully function. Our society is now so based on currency that without it many would be lost, and the jobs done that help to advance us would cease because there is no incentive to do so. Without the use of currency and exchange, governments' will crumble because their most important power is lost and a sense of order is lost. So that is why this unwise to attempt to live without it.
1.12. Con: Talent needs reward for recognition. Money is an efficient means of reward
1.12.1. Con: Rewarding talent with money is difficult and seldom done. Most workers are paid based on their lost free time.[psychologytoday.com](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/cutting-edge-leadership/201805/5-reasons-why-money-is-poor-work-motivator)
1.13. Con: Lazy people will always do less that others, without money they will benefit as much as those who work hard
1.13.1. Con: People are lazy because they do not have the right motivation. Not only because they want.
1.13.2. Pro: Would the removal of cost and the sense of contribution be sufficient motivation
1.13.3. Con: By what standard has money proven to be the golden standard of motivation? Also, by this same standard, are you claiming that those who have the most money have proven to be the most motivated in the past? Yes, lazy people might always do less than others, but lazy people will find ways to earn money while contributing as little as possible all the same. [Interesting \(long\) post on motivation can be found here.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6XAPnuFjJc)
1.14. Con: Socialist economies have failed before, unless you count Star Trek!
1.14.1. Con: Not all. ¿Why? The economies in general have failed in the past.