Discussion Title: Crime Control (speedy justice) trumps Due Process

1. Crime Control \(speedy justice\) trumps Due Process
1.1. Con: Our current justice system is designed after decades of prosecution having to 'prove beyond reasonable doubt'. This system is not compatible with crime control.
1.1.1. Pro: Crime control assumes that investigations leading to prosecution have a [high degree of certainty](http://www.antoniocasella.eu/restorative/Findley_2009.pdf) \(p. 8, para 2\) that the accused committed the crime they are prosecuted for. However, in reality, knowing that the justice system will place a high burden on prosecution to prove conviction may bias investigators towards prosecuting when they think they might get a prosecution, rather than when they are convinced of guilt.
1.1.1.1. Pro: If crime control was brought into that system, there would be a dangerous disconnect between the ways investigators have adapted to the due process system, and the ways in which crime control would place faith in those investigations and err away from rigorous checks and balances \(aimed at avoiding miscarriages of justice\) in the name of 'speedy justice'.
1.2. Pro: Given budget restrains, speedy justice is the only justice we can afford.
1.2.1. Con: Money should be redistributed to guarantee a fair justice.
1.2.1.1. Pro: Without redistribution, the wealthy will always be advantaged.
1.3. Pro: Speedy justice works in favour of the victims - as it give the offender \(whether real or just perceived\) punishment. In this way, speedy justice is for victim centred justice.
1.3.1. Con: This assumes that speedy justice will rule in favour of prosecution. Those deciding on judgements may be more unwilling to prosecute if they know that they may be criticised for miscarriage of justice due to lacking due process.
1.4. Pro: Defendants often find the process to be a punishment in and of itself. Therefore by having fasting processing, rather than cumbersome human rights, speedy justice works in defendants best interests.
1.4.1. Con: A gruelling trial would still be preferable to most, compared to a guilty verdict, prison sentence or punishment, and a criminal record. If speedy justice reduces the rigour of a trial in assuring someone is guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, it could be reducing a short term harm \(the experience of trial\) but increasing their risk of a more serious long term harm \(guilty verdict\).
1.5. Pro: Justice delayed is justice denied. By emphasising speedy justice, the concept of justice is upheld.
1.6. Con: Due Process ensure that those who are innocent but are unable to articulate it are guaranteed justice - such as those whose first language is not English or those with mental disabilities. By prioritising Crime Control \(speedy justice\), justice is denied to these vulnerable demographics.
1.7. Con: It is absolutely morally wrong to design a system that opens up the possibility that it will convict an innocent individual for the sake of financial gain / savings.
1.7.1. Con: A system that grants less than 100% certainty is acceptable because the costs of increasing certainty from, say, 90% to 100% are very high.
1.7.2. Pro: The current system was designed to try ensure that financial incentives were not valued more than the right to a fair trial. Defendants who cannot afford counsel are provided with government-funded attorneys. A crime control model would inevitably undermine this by increasing the importance of cost reduction in the name of better justice.
1.8. Con: An overbearing Crime Control orientated justice system would deny citizens human rights regarding the right to privacy. A justice system that has to sacrifice upholding human rights i not a justice system worth having.
1.9. Con: Due process works to ensure that issues of racism, ablism and other forms of discrimination are mitigated against throughout the justice system.