Discussion Title: Cultural appropriation is wrong

1. Cultural appropriation is wrong
1.1. Con: Integrating different cultures is a way for cultures to develop themselves.
1.1.1. Pro: Cultural appropriation has stimulated growth and newer ways of thinking and doing things that entice, delight, and challenge traditional thought models and conventional wisdom.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Cultural appropriation introduced true martial arts into western culture thanks to [Bruce Lee who popularized Wing Chun](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bruce_Lee) in the U.S.
1.1.2. Con: The notion of integrating cultures \(the melting pot analogy\) erases history, the tragic effects of colonization, and the way minorities in the US continue to be oppressed today. Understanding and appreciating another culture requires that we allow them to set the boundaries for what they share and what they do not.
1.1.3. Pro: Removing the ability to assimilate parts of other cultures is a recipe for cultural stagnation and decline.
1.1.3.1. Pro: Cultural appropriation is the mechanism by which societies/cultures evolve \(equivalent to natural selection in biological evolution\). Every cultural item \(art/music/dress etc\) attributed to a specific culture today was appropriated by another preceding culture.
1.1.3.1.1. Pro: Cultures do not spontaneously manifest. They by definition stand on the proverbial shoulders of previous cultures, whose parts they assimilated\(appropriated\) for whatever reason. Denying the evolving \(by appropriation\) nature of cultures is denying the facts.
1.1.4. Con: Sharing cultures is important, but removing any sense of individuality from cultures that have already suffered from assimilation and forced cultural changes in the past does not seem fair. We should stop further oppressing the oppressed.
1.1.4.1. Con: To show interest or appreciation of another's culture is not a form of oppression. In our highly globalized world, we are readily exposed to various different cultures. It would to be sad and frankly a little racist to discourage young people from embracing different cultures on the basis of the color of their skin or nationality.
1.1.5. Pro: It's just how culture works. Cultures evolve over time by absorbing desirable elements from other cultures and shedding undesirable elements from their own. Whether a culture is perceived as dominant or not is irrelevant.
1.1.5.1. Con: The fact that some groups have power over other group's cultural change is relevant. Groups with more power may be able to pick and choose which elements of other cultures they absorb. They may also force other cultures to follow new cultural norms instead of their traditional ones. Colonialism is a prime example of this. So yes, cultures exchange material, but it is always overshadowed by a power dynamic.
1.2. Pro: Cultural appropriation can actually mean stealing trademark rights, copyright from the inheritors.
1.2.1. Con: If cultural appropriation entails commercialisation then the commercialisation can devalue the original too.
1.2.2. Pro: If cultural appropriation expresses an admiration of the original culture, likes/loves those people, and rewards them, then c. a. is mutually advantageous. If c. a. is consensual, fair, balanced, then it is good, otherwise not.
1.2.3. Pro: Poor communities do not receive severely needed compensation for their cultural designs.
1.2.4. Con: It can, but that's truth for any use of somebody else's art, not only for cultural appropriation. The act of cultural appropriation itself doesn't necessitate the theft of intellectual property.
1.3. Con: Adopting parts of another culture can lead to a greater understanding and acceptance between cultures.
1.4. Con: Immersion & Research into another culture, can have positive societal benefits that can break down barriers between cultures. I penned the following piece [The Myth Of Cultural Appropriation](http://www.deanfromaustralia.com/2018/09/the-myth-of-cultural-appropriation.html) in which I attempted articulate that view. [deanfromaustralia.com](http://www.deanfromaustralia.com/2018/09/the-myth-of-cultural-appropriation.html)
1.5. Con: Cultural appropriation is capable of both harmful misrepresention, and respectful representation. Thus the act itself is not wrong, rather it depends on the execution.
1.6. Con: Cultural appropriation is a compliment.
1.6.1. Pro: People can find it flattering when other groups engage in their traditions/culture.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Imitation is the greatest form of flattery.
1.6.1.2. Pro: For many, sharing culture is very important for a diverse and accepting society.
1.6.1.3. Con: It is not flattering when groups misrepresent/misinterpret the tradition and culture of another for the sake of having fun, as it often goes.
1.7. Pro: It can trivialise a historically significant issue that a marginalised group faced.
1.7.1. Con: Popularising an issue may spread important knowledge and teach people how to approach this issue.
1.7.2. Pro: Typically people do not want to spend time researching the history of every culture they vaguely come into contact with.
1.8. Pro: It can create harmful stereotypes of specific groups of people.
1.8.1. Con: The majority group is able to appreciate a perceived aspect of minority culture. This will enhance the value of the minority community.
1.8.1.1. Con: The value of any community/culture is inherent and not dependent upon whether the majority approves.
1.8.1.1.1. Con: Value is inherent in every culture, but a heightened value of a culture in the eyes of another culture promotes familiarity, acceptance, and understanding between the two.
1.8.1.1.2. Con: A society that appreciates the contribution of a minority makes it easier for the minority to feel welcomed.
1.8.1.1.3. Pro: The minority community or culture should not have to be accepted by a majority in order to be valid. That this happens, means the majority acts as superior to any other group.
1.8.2. Con: The adoption of a part of a culture may lead to further interest in said culture, which may dispel harmful stereotypes that were previously held.
1.8.3. Pro: In cinema, for example, [blackface](https://www.vox.com/2014/10/29/7089591/dont-get-whats-wrong-with-blackface-heres-why-its-so-offensive) was used to dehumanize and portray Black people as unintelligent, which has been perpetuated into present day.
1.8.3.1. Con: According to the definition at the top of the debate, blackface isn't cultural appropriation, since it's not adoption of part of culture.
1.8.4. Con: It is possible harmful stereotypes promote cultural appropriation as a way to emphasize certain aspects of a group.
1.8.5. Pro: Stereotypes can lead to more aggressive racist tendencies.
1.8.5.1. Pro: Stereotypes can give off a false view of a group of people that other groups accept as truth. When confronted, it can inflame racial tensions.
1.8.5.2. Con: Stereotypes can lead to less xenofobic tendencies.
1.8.5.2.1. Pro: Desensitization can occur after hearing or being confronted with certain stereotypes consistently.
1.8.5.2.2. Con: This can only be true if the stereotype does not portray the group in a negative light.
1.9. Con: Cultural appropriation is a way to integrate a culture into the mainstream.
1.9.1. Pro: Western countries have a diverse population, so integrating numerous cultures into the mainstream culture acts as a way to include as many people as possible.
1.9.1.1. Con: Countries with diverse groups can use people of their respective culture to present that culture, however they are typically omitted from the decision to do so.
1.9.1.1.1. Pro: This leads to misrepresentation of a culture.
1.9.2. Con: There are other ways to integrate a culture into the mainstream, such as allowing groups belonging to that culture to represent it themselves.
1.9.2.1. Pro: Representing one's own culture allows for that culture to be presented more authentically.
1.10. Pro: It robs minorities of their achievements and identities.
1.10.1. Pro: Cultural appropriation robs the majority communities of aspects of their identity since cultural events replace each other in importance.
1.10.1.1. Con: Participating in cultural events that may not be your own only increases the importance of that culture, and creates better awareness of it as it spreads through different social groups.
1.10.1.2. Con: Cultural appropriation robs minority communities of their identities because a majority group chooses what aspect of the other cultures they want portray, making other aspects of that community's culture obsolete.
1.10.1.3. Con: It cannot rob the majority of aspects of their identity when it is the majority that perpetuates cultural appropriation in the first place. Therefore, it is self-afflicted.
1.10.2. Con: Individuals should not derive disproportionate parts of their identity from their cultural inheritance. This has been a major source of grief being a basis for nationalist, grassroots and ancestor worship movements across the world.
1.10.2.1. Pro: Relying on the accomplishments of one's ancestors or of the group one identifies with \(religious, national/regional, sport etc\), results in a false sense of entitlement on the share of praise one is owed for said accomplishments. Individual identity and worth should be based on personal achievement and not on the accident of one's birth or circumstance.
1.10.3. Pro: An [example](https://www.vix.com/en/music/527353/these-black-artists-didnt-get-credit-some-your-favorite-songs) of this is the infancy of rock-and-roll, where white musicians stole rhythm and blues music, copied it, and made millions of dollars while the black artists that invented the music went without the same recognition for years.
1.10.3.1. Pro: When white artists covered songs by Black artists, they often sanitized the lyrics, making them less racy for the sake of their white audience.
1.10.3.2. Pro: Elvis Presley was very famous for taking Black dance moves and singing songs written by Black people without crediting Black people.
1.10.3.3. Con: The net result though, is that we have rock-n-roll and before that jazz and before that blues and they've become part of our identity. Those are good things. When you take away an artist's ability to share how they engage with life; we all lose.
1.10.4. Pro: If something is white-washed or "westernized", for example, it is often easier to popularise, and those who popularise it get the credit, rather that the creators.
1.10.5. Con: To copy doesn't mean to destroy original and history.
1.10.5.1. Pro: Complete originality in culture doesn't exist, as all cultures draw upon other cultures to some extent to create their own.
1.10.5.1.1. Pro: Building upon cultural elements outside of the own culture is acknowledging the worth of these cultural elements, because they are deemed worthy enough to use in further development of the own culture.
1.10.5.2. Con: Not explicitly, however the act of a majority copying the culture of a minority can do more harm to that minority's original history and character since it is done from the perspective of the majority and not the minority itself.
1.10.6. Pro: People misidentify cultural appropriation, because it is only degrading of the original cultures tradition's when the perpetrator misappropriates the significance of the aspect of the culture, or gainfully benefits \(tangibly or intangibly\) from the out group's culture, either financially or for recognition \(i.e. fame, humor.\) When these are the conditions and it is at the expense of the out group, a true unjust act has been committed.
1.11. Pro: Cultural appropriation can disrespect the sacred traditions and items of a group.
1.11.1. Con: There is nothing inherently sacred about culture. Attempting to claim cultural appropriation does damage is valid, but only in the same way that one can argue that trying to appeal to a wider audience has ruined a piece of media.
1.11.2. Pro: [The headdress](http://www.native-languages.org/headdresses.htm) of some Native American tribes, worn ceremoniously, or as an adornment of honor for good deeds in war and within the tribe, is offensive when sold as party costumes or music festival adornments.
1.11.2.1. Con: If there is no tangible harm, an offended party is not in and of itself evidence of something being morally wrong.
1.11.3. Con: Cultural appropriation is not committed with the intent to disrespect people of a certain culture. Actions done with no ill-will are not wrong to commit.
1.11.3.1. Con: On the contrary, a number of civil and criminal offenses are listed as "strict liability" offenses, meaning that no specific mental state is required \(such as malice or ill-will\).
1.11.3.1.1. Con: Legality is not the same as morality.
1.11.3.1.2. Con: Strict liability is unjust precisely because it punishes people who did not have any intention to cause harm \(mens rea\). It is also an exception to the rule - in most cases, the law takes into account the perpetrator's state of mind.
1.12. Con: Adopting other cultures to simply enjoy \(e.g. listening to other cultures' music, celebrating their holidays, or enjoying their food\) is not harmful.
1.12.1. Pro: Cultural appropriation is a part of reforming old values and beliefs, transforming them to reflect modern society.
1.12.2. Con: The boundary between cultural appropriation as a negative thing and adoption of cultural traits based on respect and admiration is often very unclear.
1.12.2.1. Pro: It is possible to culturally appropriate something whilst acknowledging and understanding its cultural significance.
1.12.2.1.1. Pro: Cutural appropriation differs from cultural appreciation. Once credit is given to the community of origin, and it is done with respect, celebrating culture is not harmful.
1.12.2.1.1.1. Con: The popular issue brought up about cultural appropriation is that this is rarely done.
1.12.2.1.2. Con: Unfortunately, the way many cultures are presented when culturally appropriated shows a lack of knowledge, and in some instances respect.
1.12.2.1.3. Pro: It spreads the knowledge and influence of a certain culture and allows people to become more culturally aware.
1.12.3. Con: The examples above are examples of cultural exchange, not cultural appropriation. Appropriation happens when a dominant culture reaps the \(economic, social\) benefits over the culture or people that created it, and/or when there is disrespect \(intentional or not\) against the culture that created it. [bit.ly](https://bit.ly/2x9Le1W)
1.12.4. Con: Enjoying the music and food of another culture is different from [cultural appropriation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultural_appropriation), which is adopting or use of elements of a culture without consent or proper representation.
1.12.4.1. Con: Even if you know people of the culture who approve, they may not be representative of the whole group, making it impossible to be sure whether the culture consents or not.
1.12.4.2. Con: Asking for permission to use elements of clothing, or instruments for a song from another culture before embarking on a creative exploration is a bit absurd.
1.12.5. Pro: To truly enjoy the culture, one would need to understand the historical and cultural significance behind the instrument, melody, song, event, or food they are partaking in. Enjoying these aspects would allow the in-group to learn to respect the out-group's culture.
1.13. Con: People should have the personal freedom and choice to enjoy a part of a culture in any way they want.
1.13.1. Con: People can have the freedom to be wrong. It does not change that they are wrong.
1.13.2. Pro: People should have free choice over their actions, but they must also be aware that others are freely entitled to be offended by their actions.
1.13.3. Con: Personal freedom ends where one disrespects the culture and tradition of another.
1.13.3.1. Con: This is a subjective opinion on where personal freedom should end, not where it actually ends.
1.13.3.2. Con: It's still not a objective statement to say cultural appropriation is disrespectful nor harmful. One's freedom should not be taken based on subjective opinions.
1.13.4. Con: When this personal freedom is used to deliver inappropriate or false information about a culture it should be curtailed.