Discussion Title: Cultural Anthropology should be a required course for all high school students.

1. Cultural Anthropology should be a required course for all high school students.
1.1. Con: High school curricula are very demanding as they are, more subjects would be an extra burden for students.
1.1.1. Pro: An American Academy of Pediatrics \(AAP\) reports that too much work and too little play for children can have long-term [negative consequences](https://www.webmd.com/parenting/features/coping-school-stress#1): "Colleges are seeing a generation of students who appear to be manifesting increased signs of depression, anxiety, perfectionism and stress".
1.1.2. Con: Even if school curricula are demanding, adding a subjects that can report social benefits in the long-run is a small cost compared to the possible benefits.
1.1.3. Pro: If the goal is to foster more tolerance of other cultures, we might do better to restructure education to promote tolerance towards unfamiliar concepts or people, or more comprehensive honesty in the subjects taught.
1.2. Con: Intercultural workshops or assemblies can be implemented instead of another mandatory class-based subject.
1.2.1. Con: Students may take core subjects more seriously than extra curricular workshops.
1.2.2. Pro: Mandatory subjects are often seen as a chore by students. A more dynamic and free environment could be seen more positively.
1.2.3. Pro: A course Cultural Anthropology may affect students' personal views with awareness, but it doesn't do anything to prepare them for independence \(the main purpose of school\). Schools can work to increase acceptance and reduce bullying of minorities in other ways \(assemblies and/or lectures\) that don't force students to go through an entire new course.
1.3. Con: For high schools with tight budgets, a new subject may be economically impossible.
1.3.1. Pro: Schools would need to hire new teachers that are able to competently teach cultural anthropology.
1.4. Pro: Anthropology teaches students to take another’s perspective with empathy.
1.4.1. Con: Even if someone is capable of empathy, that does not mean that anger, jealousy or prejudice cannot overcome it.
1.4.2. Pro: Empathy contributes to the creation of a more peaceful world.
1.4.3. Con: Recognizing the stark differences between people will help foster more racist attitudes.
1.5. Con: Nothing should be required. Children and parents ought to be able to decide what they want to learn.
1.5.1. Con: Mandatory subjects should not be decided by individual parents, as the children risk missing out on important knowledge that the parents don't think is useful.
1.5.2. Con: Children should not decide what they want to learn.
1.5.2.1. Con: It should be age/experience based. Meaning at a certain age they can be able to form their own decisions based on knowledge, beliefs, experiences, morals.
1.5.3. Con: They have a say, but they do not have the proper background in order to choose in these matters.
1.6. Con: There are more important subjects to focus on.
1.6.1. Pro: It is more important to focus on core skills like Math and Reading.
1.6.1.1. Con: Core skills are nothing in workplace employability if interpersonal and cultural skills are lacking.
1.6.2. Pro: There are other technical and more useful subjects \(e.g. computer programming\) that could prepare students for successful careers.
1.6.2.1. Con: Designing software is hugely dependent on understanding end-user goals, thus anthropologists are in high demand. A couple of courses in cultural anthropology \(maybe designed for computer programming\) should be required of all software majors.
1.6.3. Con: Anthropology stretches into fields like medicine, business and teaching. It teaches analytical and critical thinking, understanding ourselves in relation to others, why we do what we do, why others do what they do - and the factors that influence these. It teaches social and cultural context. All of these build up to skills required in many different occupations, especially those requiring the development of interpersonal relations. It is a valuable subject.
1.6.4. Pro: At the grade school level this is probably already addressed by teaching social studies; the goal seems to be aimed at improving critical thinking and awareness of history or social studies education instead.
1.7. Pro: Most misunderstandings come from lack of knowledge of another's culture.
1.7.1. Pro: For example, some people may end up going to jail or prison in another nation, because they had no idea they were offending their hosts.
1.8. Pro: The anthropological methodology of participant observation equips students with the tools necessary to successfully navigate cross-cultural experiences.
1.8.1. Con: Learning anthropological theory may not be enough to successfully navigate cross-cultural experiences.
1.8.2. Pro: When students participate in another culture they are forced to set aside previously held prejudices and to ask questions.
1.8.2.1. Pro: It  is through the asking of questions that one comes to a fuller understanding and appreciation of another person’s experience and view of the world.
1.8.3. Pro: The world is ever changing and it has the potential to be a valuable tool since travel and inter cultural relations are becoming more and more frequent.
1.9. Pro: It is through true cultural understanding that we make the world a more equitable and sustainable place.
1.9.1. Pro: There would be less bigotry with the teaching of our differences, cultures clash because we don't understand an others culture. Americans get into trouble because they don't know the culture of a nation they visit and wonder why. The Asian culture is so different then ours and we show our ignorance around them. Even the male and female cultures differ and clash, men change around women, because they become instantly turn on, like at a woman's no turning back stage sexually, when aroused.
1.9.2. Pro: The ideas of anthropology and the common human experience emphasize social justice and the need to act responsibly.
1.10. Pro: The increasingly complex nature of our world demands that we teach anthropology in secondary schools.
1.10.1. Pro: Students leave anthropology courses with enough anthropological training to view the world through less ethnocentric eyes.
1.10.2. Pro: As schools become more multicultural and diverse and seek to create environments that are tolerant, it is, as noted anthropologist Ruth Benedict said, “the purpose of anthropology to make the world safe for human difference.”