Discussion Title: Denmark should legalise cannabis

1. Denmark should legalise cannabis
1.1. Pro: The saved costs of policing could be spend on more important stuff.
1.1.1. Con: Police officers can no longer earn extra money by selling their bribes to friends
1.1.1.1. Con: This assumes an unfair level of institutional corruption.
1.1.2. Pro: Time could be spent policing more damaging drugs or investigating criminal issues that may otherwise be overlooked.
1.2. Con: Legalising cannabis for recreational use can have a negative impact on the citizens' view on it \(it may get more normalized among the younger generation\).
1.2.1. Con: This is not necessarily a problem.
1.3. Con: Cannabis is a [gateway-drug](https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/marijuana/marijuana-gateway-drug) and should therefore stay illegal like hard drugs.
1.4. Pro: There's great medicinal value in cannabis
1.4.1. Con: Cannabis is very addictive.
1.4.1.1. Con: The physical addiction to cannabis is much smaller than both alcohol and nicotine, requiring a re-opening of our general policy towards consumption.
1.4.2. Pro: Cannabis has many [medicinal uses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_cannabis).
1.4.3. Pro: If we legalized cannabis it would be way easier to determine the hard facts
1.4.3.1. Con: But maybe at the cost of people developing psychosis.
1.4.3.1.1. Con: This is a misrepresentation: medicinal cannabis tends not to contain THC, the chemical [causally linked](http://theconversation.com/cannabis-and-psychosis-what-is-the-link-and-who-is-at-risk-95368) to psychosis.
1.4.3.1.2. Con: Medicinal cannabis will generally be more composed of CBD, which - rather than causing psychosis - [is a buffer](http://theconversation.com/cannabis-and-psychosis-what-is-the-link-and-who-is-at-risk-95368), and is instead beneficial to mental health.
1.4.3.2. Pro: Currently, cannabis cannot be rigorously studied, as governmental restrictions forbid it.
1.4.4. Con: Cannabis shouldn't become legal for recreational use because of its medicinal value. Cannabis products are currently legal for Danish doctors to prescribe—this doesn't mean that people should be allowed to smoke weed whenever they feel like it.
1.4.4.1. Con: Full legalization of cannabis would enable quality control of a substance that is already readilly available and can be grown in any windowsill or backyard.
1.5. Pro: There will be far less drug related crimes
1.5.1. Pro: Legalizing marijuana would subtract the market to the Italian mafia, that operates all over Europe.
1.6. Con: People will smoke more weed if it becomes legal, and that is not desirable for a society
1.6.1. Pro: Producing weed could be a new source of revenue for a lot of people.
1.6.2. Pro: People would consume less alcohol and hard drugs
1.6.3. Con: That isn't necessarily for all groups in the US, where [teens are smoking less weed in states where it’s legal](https://news.vice.com/en_us/article/wjzzj9/teens-are-smoking-less-weed-in-states-where-its-legal). Use among people aged 18-25 has gone up. Would we rather have more teens smoking pot \(illegally\) or more people in their 20's smoking pot \(legally\)?
1.6.4. Con: The money from fines would be a positive development.
1.7. Con: There are a number of health risks related to cannabis that we still don't know the extent of.
1.7.1. Con: It's bad for your health
1.7.2. Con: The medical properties of cannabis are being thoroughly investigated, which have led to medical cannabis being available for certain conditions with a prescription. We can investigate further, but when do we know enough? People who are informed about the possible side effects of using cannabis can make an informed choice.
1.7.3. Pro: The same is true of alcohol; these things cannot be controlled without being permitted in the first place.
1.7.4. Con: This is also true of vaccines, but they do not face the same conclusion.
1.8. Pro: The existence and acceptance of Christiania means that is already quasi legal. Anyone in Copenhagen can very easily buy cannabis products.
1.9. Pro: Proceeds from cannabis sales should benefit the government rather than gangs and other criminal groups, as is currently the case.
1.9.1. Pro: It's not to make money. It's basically to prevent the criminal world profiting from cannabis.
1.9.2. Con: It is immoral for the Danish government to make money off drug sales.
1.9.2.1. Con: They already make money from alcohol and tobacco. It is no less moral to make money from drugs.