Discussion Title: Did the Exodus Really Happen?

1. We know that the Exodus didn't happen because there's no historical evidence
1.1. Con: Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence.
1.1.1. Con: Absence of evidence is enough to be skeptical about a certain proposition.
1.1.2. Con: Justified belief requires some sort of evidence. Therefore, belief without evidence is unjustified.
1.1.2.1. Con: The records in Scripture & Jewish tradition constitute 'some sort of evidence'. The question should rather be how to weigh this evidence.
1.2. Con: There is [pseudoarcheologist](https://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Evidence_for_the_Exodus#Pseudoarchaeologist_claims) evidence.
1.2.1. Con: The prefix "Pseudo" is derived from the Greek word for lying and means that whatever follows is actually false.
1.3. Pro: The story doesn't make any logical sense.
1.3.1. Pro: The distance that supposedly took the Jews 40 years to travel is actually really short. In the Bible, they cross the red sea at the very beginning of the journey, meaning it should have only taken them a couple of weeks to get to Jerusalem, let alone the borders of today's Israel.
1.4. Con: The Bible can be considered an historical document, therefore it can be considered historial evidence that the exodus happened.
1.4.1. Con: The Bible was written when Israel was captive in Babylon, long after Egypt; too long to be considered "historical". It would have been reiteration of oral tales. Again, not considered "historical" in regards to Exodus.
1.4.1.1. Con: That being said, it doesn't mean the oral tales were outright wrong; just prone to drift from being purely accurate.  So, Exodus cannot be taken word-for-word historical.  Just a good starting point when researching history.
1.4.2. Con: Historical evidence rarely changes. However, there are many versions of the Bible that may indicate its recordings are more myth tailored to the demographics of its readers.
1.4.2.1. Pro: There are many parallels between the stories found in the Bible and [mythology.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_mythology) It is likely Exodus is one of them.
1.4.3. Con: Even most people who strongly believe in the truth of the Bible would concede that much of it is metaphorical. A book of metaphors can only be considered historical evidence in a very narrow sense, namely regarding the history of metaphors.
1.4.3.1. Con: It does not follow from 'much of the Bible is metaphorical' that all of the Bible or the passage in question is. Each Biblical text should be evaluated on its own merits.
1.4.4. Con: The Bible can not be considered a historical document at all, because most of its stories are historically inaccurate according to the scientific understanding that we have.
1.4.4.1. Con: The Bible is by far the world's best and most accurate historical document. For centuries archaeology thought the[Hittites](http://www.christianorigins.com/2005/02/hittites-and-legendary-critics.html) existed only in the old testament and could not have represented a real civilization, yet they were found exactly where and when the Bible described.
1.4.4.2. Pro: It is implausible the mother would put her infant in a basket down the Nile, a river full of crocodiles.
1.5. Pro: There aren't any Egyptian documents that tell any of the events described in the book of Exodus.
1.5.1. Con: Recording that a large number of people left would be embarassing for the Pharao and therefore could be deleted.
1.5.1.1. Con: Such a massive movement of population would have been recorded by neighboring countries who would have had no reason to delete this information, quite the contrary....
1.5.2. Pro: It seems unusual for the time that there is no Egyptian record keeping; not even of the plagues.
1.5.3. Con: We have don't have a full record of Egypt's history. The vast majority of records from that long ago are probably lost. Nevertheless there are many clues that collaborate the Bibles account [viewzone.com](http://viewzone.com/exodus.html)