Discussion Title: Do electronic devices help or hurt children's development?

1. Giving devices \(phone, tablet, computer, etc.\) to children is valuable for their development.
1.1. Con: Device usage can impede children's physical development.
1.1.1. Con: As long as the time they spend on technology is moderated, device usage shouldn't have any negative impact on a child's bodily development.
1.1.2. Pro: Studies have shown that spending time hunched over a screen can lead to poor posture, which can lead to [long-term problems](https://screentimelabs.com/is-excess-mobile-device-use-harming-your-childs-posture/) such as chronic pain and digestive problems.
1.1.3. Con: [Simple changes](https://screentimelabs.com/is-excess-mobile-device-use-harming-your-childs-posture/) like intermittent stretching and sitting up straight while using devices can easily help prevent problems like spinal malformation and [forward-head posture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forward_head_posture).
1.1.4. Con: Children are able to use digital devices while still frequently exercising, climbing trees, playing sports, playing with their friends at recess, etc.
1.2. Pro: Giving them devices with no restrictions negates development value by reinforcing the negative side effects of device use \(overuse, dependency, information bias.\) Modelling and  teaching responsible use has tremendous benefits.
1.2.1. Pro: Anything can have the potential to cause harm or give benefit. The give is found in the guidelines employed to minimise negative effects and maximise benefits.
1.3. Pro: Devices are helpful in furthering children's educations.
1.3.1. Pro: Allowing children access to digital technology enables them to learn about the world and to keep up with recent news. This may result in those children being more politically and socially aware later in life.
1.3.2. Pro: Kids learn new words
1.3.2.1. Con: Giving kids unbridled access to the internet might result in them learning words that their parents would not approve of.
1.3.3. Pro: In this modern day and age, where technology usage is prominent, a child with no previous exposure to technology may easily fall behind in using technology to learn new information, complete school assignments, and develop as integral members of society.
1.4. Con: Devices can negatively affect children's social and psychological development.
1.4.1. Pro: Kids are lacking learning social behaviour habits such as facial expressions
1.4.1.1. Con: Kids still interact with the world at school, at social events, and during extra-curricular activities. They also speak with their family members or other guardian\(s\) they live with. During this time, they learn to pick up social cues and communicate with people in real life.
1.4.2. Pro: Kids' development depends more on their interactions with people in their childhood than on their environment\(includes electronics\). Most well known geniuses grew without the technology available today, so it's logical to conclude that the importance lies in factors other than the electronics, which can either deteriorate or develop\(depending on how they're used\).
1.4.2.1. Con: We cannot say that there are no geniuses among the new generations, because they are still too young to show their abilities.
1.4.3. Pro: The intent of the technology is typically disregarded at younger ages which can lead into a phone or tablet addiction that will hurt the child in the long run.
1.4.3.1. Pro: [Internet addiction](http://www.techaddiction.ca/internet_addiction_statistics.html) is becoming increasingly common as technological development progresses, and has harmful long-term consequences.
1.4.4. Pro: Previous top executives of social media’s companies have stated that social media is ripping apart the social fabric. The social fabric is responsible \(as a culture always is\) of raising children in an appropriate fashion. This is absolutely observably happening. Just look around when you go to dinner at all the people on their phones. [theverge.com](https://www.theverge.com/2017/12/11/16761016/former-facebook-exec-ripping-apart-society)
1.4.5. Pro: As the device offers them whatever they want as soon as they want it, children are growing with poor patience and lack of creativity.
1.5. Pro: Kids can entertain themselves.
1.5.1. Pro: If access to devices can help children learn how to occupy themselves, then it could help foster independence at an early age.
1.5.1.1. Con: Conversely, if children rely on devices to occupy them from an early age then it could just as easily foster dependence on said devices.
1.5.2. Con: If children get in the habit of relying on devices to occupy their time, then they risk losing out on valuable social opportunities.
1.5.3. Con: Children are creative by nature, and they are capable of finding unique solutions to problems. They would be able to entertain themselves even without the use of technology.
1.5.3.1. Pro: Children have been entertaining themselves for centuries prior to the creation of smart technology. To assume that they can no longer do so in the absence of an electronic device is absurd.
1.5.4. Con: Kids are not exercising their imagination but just consume visuals served via device
1.6. Pro: Devices can benefit parents by offering them greater control over their children's development.
1.6.1. Pro: Phones can help track our kids for safety reasons
1.6.1.1. Con: Using devices to track children does not aid in their development in any way, but rather serves only to help assuage the fears of their parents.
1.6.2. Pro: Device can be controlled by parent easily \(only e.g. games and youtube are allowed\)
1.6.2.1. Pro: Limits the child to what the parents want the technology to be used for
1.7. Con: I think is bad for the children, because in this way they may lose important traits of human behavior such as empathy or responsability, etc.
1.8. Con: Using devices in school can negatively affect children's grades.
1.8.1. Pro: One [study](https://www.timeshighereducation.com/news/using-laptops-in-class-harms-academic-performance-study-warns#survey-answer) found that students who use computers in class receive lower grades than those who don't.
1.8.2. Con: Learning to use technology at a young age can better prepare children for pursuing careers in STEM, which could ultimately help them in the long run.
1.8.3. Pro: [Studies](https://www.timeshighereducation.com/news/pen-and-paper-beats-computers-retaining-knowledge) have shown that students have an easier time retaining information when they hand-write and use books versus when they use digital materials.
1.8.4. Pro: With the internet at their fingertips, access to phones and computers during class can be very distracting and prevent students from paying attention.