Discussion Title: Do U.S. military bases around the world make the U.S. less secure?

1. U.S. military bases around the world make the U.S. less secure.
1.1. Pro: U.S. spends exorbitant amounts of money every year to maintain these bases, money much better spent on Americans in areas such as health care, infrastructure, and many other categories.
1.2. Pro: The wide constellation of bases has enabled countless military strikes from Vietnam to Iraq and made it much easier for leaders to take the United States to war.
1.2.1. Pro: U.S. wars in the Middle East and Latin America have created enormous refugee populations. Some may want to do the U.S. harm by coming here. Many are angry at their lot at the hand of the U.S., and understandably so.
1.3. Con: Closure of US military bases would allow alternative countries like China to step in. The US is a much better actor.
1.3.1. Con: Attempting to "rule the world" without the support of the world and without enough power to ensure that position is an inherently dangerous thing to do.
1.3.2. Con: The U.S. is only a 'better actor' from a Western perspective. From a non-Western perspective, these bases are a symbol of modern imperialism.
1.3.2.1. Pro: The US has invaded more countries and overthrown more governments than China.
1.4. Con: If the US closed all its military bases it would face the full weight of the "blowback" of its policies and would create an even more precarious security situation.
1.4.1. Con: This claim demonstrates how U.S. military bases have already made the U.S. less secure. The fact that closing them would be even worse is irrelevant.
1.4.1.1. Con: Regardless of the harms that were incurred after the creation of the bases, removing them can cause a lot of damage and is therefore not an irrelevant factor.
1.5. Con: The US has to keep these bases open to protect sea lanes for petroleum and other resources. If it closed them it would lose influence throughout the world and the ability to keep resources flowing that are required for business and to be a world leader.
1.5.1. Con: The US might claim to protect sea lanes, but American military planners also intend to use the US military to [blockade](https://warontherocks.com/2017/11/balancing-china-united-states-partners-can-check-chinese-naval-expansion/) its rivals in order to force them to surrender. This is why countries like [China](http://www.globalzero.org/files/bb_the_oil_weapon_summer_2006.pdf) to view the US as its enemy, which ultimately makes the US less safe.
1.6. Con: The US would lose its geo-strategic advantage in matters of war if these bases were shut down.
1.6.1. Pro: If attacked, the US would give up all the positional advantage gained since World War II.
1.6.2. Con: A geo-strategic advantage is no longer necessary in an era where most international competition is economic, cyber, or unconventional warfare.