Discussion Title: Do we need more and stronger international institutions?

1. States should aim for more and stronger international institutions.
1.1. Con: Giving the responsibility for enforcing existing treaties and norms to international institutions weakens and waters them down. States should therefore keep that responsibility.
1.2. Pro: International institutions reduce anarchy in the international system, leading to fewer wars and more development.
1.2.1. Pro: The UN Security Council acts as forum in times of crisis.
1.2.2. Pro: International institutions are often perceived as more neutral and therefore are better mediator.
1.2.2.1. Con: International institutions show marked special interests. The UN's [anti-Israel bias](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Israel,_Palestine,_and_the_United_Nations) is a good example of this.
1.2.2.2. Con: The UN is mired in voting blocks that promote special interests and trample the rights of minority groups.
1.2.3. Pro: International institutions help states to reduce the uncertainty about each other's intentions. This helps to reduce the driving forces of conflict between states: suspicion about each other's motives and the security dilemma.
1.2.4. Con: There is little evidence that international institutions like the UN actually reduce anarchy. States will act in their own interest regardless.
1.2.4.1. Pro: If the actions of particular states are not in the interest of the majority of states, then those states will band together and force the deviant state to back down without any institutions.
1.2.4.2. Con: Since the inception of powerful institutions such as the UN the world has seen a major reduction in wars and and increase in development. There is a causal link between the two.
1.2.4.2.1. Con: Correlation does not imply causation.
1.2.4.2.2. Con: This reduction in wars occurred after the worst world war the world had ever seen and the introduction of nuclear weapons. The bi-polar world following world war two would have been stable regardless of institutions such as the UN
1.2.4.3. Pro: The rules and norms of the UN are routinely violated by states when this serves their own interests, and especially so in the case of great powers like the US and Russia.
1.2.4.3.1. Con: Which is exactly why we need to strengthen international institutions like the UN instead of giving up on them
1.2.5. Con: Fewer wars and general development can also come about through wide-spread affluence, as the past decades have shown.
1.2.6. Pro: The EU has led to the longest period of time Europe has ever gone without war.
1.2.7. Pro: International institutions promote dialogue, cooperation and peace.
1.3. Pro: This is necessary in a globalized world. Governance on a solely national level is no longer sufficient to maintain a rules-based order.
1.3.1. Pro: Many systems are already irreversibly global \(such as economics, social issues, communication, the environment, etc\). These systems need a global framework to anchor to.
1.4. Con: There is little evidence that international institutions are anything more than tools that powerful nations use in order to accomplish what they want.
1.4.1. Con: International institutions do a massive amount of humanitarian work to help the helpless and starving across the world \(like the UNHCR, UNICEF, WFP, etc.\) which is to benefit these people, not powerful nations.
1.4.2. Con: Powerful nations exert influence over smaller nations regardless of international institutions, but international institutions give some influence to smaller nations over how this power will affect them.
1.4.3. Pro: International institutions such as the UN were involved in many operations that served primarily the interests of the five permanent members of the UN\(US, UK, China, Russia, and France\). An example includes the UN forces decisively acting in the interest of oil-rich Kuwait but not in the interest of the poorer Tutsi population during the Rwandan genocide.
1.4.4. Con: Small countries enjoy a disproportional influence in international institutions, like the UN.
1.4.5. Con: Multiple examples exist of smaller countries extracting benefits or achieving their aims via international institutions.
1.5. Con: There are already too many international organizations that either overlap or are unnecessarily niche-focused.
1.5.1. Pro: Depending on the source, there are [about or more than 250](https://www.psa.ac.uk/insight-plus/blog/how-many-international-organisations-are-there-yearbook-international) international organizations at the moment, most of them with their own bureaucratic apparatus.
1.5.2. Pro: [More than a dozen](http://More than a dozen European countries are members of regional organizations like the European Union, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, all of them with overlapping mandates.) European states are simultaneously members of regional organizations with overlapping mandates, like the European Union, the Council of Europe and the OSCE.
1.5.2.1. Con: There is no obvious and tangible harm coming from organizations with overlapping areas of focus.
1.5.2.2. Pro: The European Union, the OSCE as well as NATO overlap in that all three concern themselves with security on the European continent \([van Willigen/Koops, p. 735](http://www.joachimkoops.com/uploads/5/2/9/6/52960989/the_eus_relationship_with_nato_and_the_o.pdf)\).
1.5.3. Pro: Organizations like the European Union and NATO, both with aspirations in coordinating member countries' defense policies, [routinely](http://www.heritage.org/europe/report/eu-defense-integration-undermining-nato-transatlantic-relations-and-europes-security) [creep onto](https://www.defensenews.com/digital-show-dailies/dsei/2017/09/11/a-nato-versus-eu-defense-system-german-forces-reignite-the-debate/) each other's territory.
1.5.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.2.2.
1.5.4. Con: That some international organizations "overlap" is not demonstrably bad. In fact, it can have benefits.
1.5.4.1. Pro: Some countries belong to both regional and international meteorological organizations. Under these organizations, they can share weather data with their neighbors and modeling techniques internationally, which result in better prediction of violent weather and protects the lives and property of citizens.  The "overlap" only enables more integration and better results.
1.6. Con: Countries should not give up their sovereignty to international institutions.
1.6.1. Con: Sovereignty has become an excuse to justify bad behavior and should therefore not be an ideal or goal.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Sovereignty has become a guise to justify bad decisions, for example Brexit. decisions. There were few objectively good reasons for this step.
1.6.1.1.1. Con: Peoples are free to make decisions that others consider as bad; that's an integral element of sovereignty.
1.6.1.1.2. Con: Whether decisions such as Brexit are good or bad is up for interpretation and depends on the standards one applies.
1.6.1.1.3. Con: This sounds like an argument that could be used to justify imperialism; "we know what's best for you". Historically people imposing their will on others has turned out poorly for those being imposed upon.
1.6.1.1.3.1. Con: There is a big difference between nations coming together to achieve higher ends and one nation imposing its will on another. The EU lifts those countries under it above what they could have achieved alone through economic interdependence and increased stability. Since the creation of the EU Europe has been a much stabler place.
1.6.1.1.3.1.1. Con: Europe is stable because they don't want another world war and because of the threat that Russia poses/posed. The stability would have occurred regardless of the existence of the EU.
1.6.1.1.3.1.1.1. Con: But the EU allows for further economic interdependence that has lead to an explosion of development in the region.
1.6.1.1.3.1.1.1.1. Con: Trade deals can exist without an institution like the EU and many nations experience development in post-war eras. Especially with the help of things like the Marshall plan it is unsurprising that the EU would develop as it has.
1.6.1.2. Pro: Sovereignty has become a shield behind which states can hide when pressed on their bad behavior, as is evident in the diplomatic rhetoric of China and North Korea.
1.6.1.3. Con: Sovereignty is of central value: it ensures the right of people [to self-determination](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-determination).
1.6.2. Con: Globalization already pressures jurisdictions and economies to standardize and adapt to international standards and regulations. International institutions would instead give some power to these states over these issues.
1.6.3. Pro: The EU's direction, specifically in regards to the handling of the recent refugee crisis starting in 2015, has led to much discontent within it's member states. Many countries including Germany, Sweden, and Italy have responded by voting for right wing political factions, with some even taking the majority in parliaments.
1.6.4. Pro: International bureaucrats are not elected by the people.
1.6.4.1. Con: Many high-ranking representatives of organizations are put into office in democratically legitimized ways: the President of the EU's Council is appointed by the elected heads of member states; the Secretary General of the UN is appointed by the General Assembly in which elected state governments vote
1.6.4.1.1. Con: These elections go over so many steps the individual person might not feel represented.
1.6.5. Con: In a globalized world, countries inevitably have to give up some of their sovereignty in order to deal with global challenges. Thinking in terms of pure and full sovereignty and making this the goal of political action is therefore unrealistic.
1.6.6. Pro: The track record of international bureaucracy is mixed at best.
1.6.7. Con: Countries do not give up their sovereignty through international organizations: they remain free to leave them.
1.6.8. Con: Voluntarily restricting one's sovereignty, in exchange for others doing the same, can lead to better results for everybody. This is the basic principle underlying society, and it applies as much to individuals forming a society as it does to states forming international institutions.
1.7. Pro: International institutions, such as the World Trade Organization, are effective at managing global trade, settling disputes and benefiting countries and consumers.
1.7.1. Con: Trade organizations like the WTO [have been criticized](https://weeklyworker.co.uk/worker/714/global-imperialism-and-wto/) as merely another tool of imperialism through which powerful nations impose their will on the world.
1.7.2. Con: Treaties and bilateral diplomacy can maintain standards of trade and order without requiring international organizations.
1.7.2.1. Con: International institutions force countries to persistently work together; this can lead to disputes.
1.7.2.2. Con: Most trade is monitored by international organizations - NAFTA, WTO, etc.
1.8. Pro: International institutions enable and promote support for developing countries.
1.9. Pro: International institutions are an important and necessary step towards overcoming toxic nationalism and tribalism.
1.9.1. Pro: They help institute discourse and understanding as well as compassion between nations.
1.9.1.1. Con: During the Cold War, many of the countries voted in a binary fashion, either supporting the communist Soviet bloc or the free world led by the US. There was likely much animosity between the sides.
1.9.2. Con: There is nothing to suggest that international institutions like the UN have reduced "toxic nationalism and tribalism". There are many nationalist countries such as Russia, China, Israel, and North Korea. Israel itself was de-facto founded in 1947 by many of the founding members of the UN.
1.9.3. Con: International organizations might as well fuel nationalism as they give people the impression that power is taken away from them. The Brexit case is instructive.
1.9.3.1. Pro: The failure of the first large-scale international organization - the League of Nations - [has been linked](http://www.e-ir.info/2010/09/08/e-h-carr-and-the-failure-of-the-league-of-nations-a-historical-overview/) to the rise of nationalism and attempt of member states to exploit the organization for their nationalist purposes.
1.9.4. Con: Nationalism is not always toxic but can have beneficial effects, especially for countries themselves.
1.10. Con: There is no good way way to distribute power to members states.
1.10.1. Pro: Promoting international institutions before achieving a more equitable distribution of power and wealth simply entrenches the influence of powerful nations.
1.10.2. Con: Many confederations have overcome these concerns, and this is more a challenge to the realization of this goal then an actual consequence.
1.10.3. Pro: The principle of "one country, one vote" disproportionately favors small countries.
1.10.3.1. Con: Not all institutions assign each country one vote. The International Monetary Fund, for example, assigns [voting quotas](https://www.imf.org/external/np/sec/memdir/members.aspx) depending on countries' size. Thus, America holds 17% of votes, China 6% and the Comoro Islands only 0.004%.
1.10.4. Pro: Votes by population favours fewer larger countries, and shuts out smaller countries almost entirely.
1.10.5. Pro: Voting power based on economic interest favors industrial, rich countries.
1.11. Con: The centralization of competencies leads to numerous problems.
1.11.1. Pro: It leads to less nuance in debating issues, making decisions and implementing them.
1.11.2. Pro: Centralized decision making leads to a disconnect from events and culture on the ground.
1.11.2.1. Pro: In addition, those making and implementing decisions have no "skin in the game" when far away at a centralized institution.
1.12. Pro: International institutions provide structures to deal with global problems and crises.
1.12.1. Con: Organizations like the UN effectively prohibit states from dealing with crises on their own yet suffer from deadlock that makes collective action impossible. As a result, many issues do not get dealt with at all, for example the war in Syria.
1.12.2. Pro: Issues like climate change that are of a global nature and can not be dealt with by single states or even groups of states require an equally global response.