Discussion Title: Do we need religion for morality?

1. We need religion for morality.
1.1. Pro: Religions provide cultural norms of both good and bad behavior that permeate their respective societies \(Buddhism, Hinduism, Christianity, Taoism, etc\). Laws delineate the 'do not cross' line for bad moral behavior \(don't kill\), but it's only religion that articulates good moral behavior - we don't have a law to 'love your neighbor.'
1.1.1. Con: Government establishes a precedence of morality through law.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Governments can establish law on the basis of maximizing personal liberties. Religious liberty, or religious freedom is a moral exclusive of religious teachings.
1.2. Con: It isn't clear where we get our moral ideas from: some people are certain in their religion, but ignorant with regards to morality \(see Euthyphro or the Fourth Crusade\); some are certain about moral values, but uncertain about the existence of super-natural/spiritual things \(see principled humanists\). Since our morality must come from somewhere, we must posit alternatives to either option.
1.2.1. Con: Just because an individual isn’t religious doesn’t mean their social understanding of morality isn’t shaped by religion’s influence on the society they live and grew up in.
1.2.2. Pro: For the first option see Euthyphro or the Fourth Crusade; for the latter see principled humanists.
1.3. Con: Objective morality can be defined by categorical imperatives. Since we are able to deduce categorical imperatives through our faculties of reason, objective morality can be derived from human sources.  [plato.stanford.edu](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/kant-moral/)
1.3.1. Pro: [Science](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hj9oB4zpHww) can answer moral questions.
1.3.1.1. Con: No it can't. Science is in the business of description, not prescription.
1.4. Pro: In order to go from "is" to "ought," one must introduce something from outside the realm of the "is."
1.4.1. Con: By engaging in any philosophical discussion at all, one must hold the principle that one ought to be reasonable in their beliefs. One who doesn't engage in philosophy has nothing meaningful to say, and one who advocates against reason only has nonsense to offer, and is therefore irrelevant.
1.4.2. Con: Philosophers that accept Hume's "is–ought" distinction reject his reasons in making this, and thus undermine the entire claim.
1.4.3. Pro: To even say that the way things are is the way they should be requires a moral judgement from outside the way things are. Therefore, even "that which pursues preservation of my own life" cannot be deemed moral without an external source.
1.4.4. Con: The human mind is capable of conceiving of things that cannot be observed. Religion itself is proof of this. That capability need not come from an external source.
1.4.5. Con: The is-ought problem is no more solvable on theism than on atheism. We cannot derive "One ought to do what God says" from "God is the source of morality" without smuggling in an additional "ought" statement.
1.4.5.1. Con: This is a misunderstanding of the concept of God. A god is not a being who simply tells people what to do. If that were the case, this claim would be correct because "why should we do what God says we should do?". God instead is the embodiment of goodness. Our motive to follow his instructions are that his instructions are, by definition, good.
1.4.5.1.1. Con: If defining God so that the definition includes "a being whose instructions should be followed" is a valid way to overcome the is-ought gap, we can simply define other concepts similarly, e.g. "utility is, by definition, that which should be maximised" to make utilitarianism true.
1.5. Pro: If people are only the physical and merely result from biological and chemical reactions, there is no self-determination. Because we only condemn or praise individuals if they are responsible for their actions, there is no moral condemnation for "bad" acts if there is nothing other than inevitable/inescapable physical interactions/reactions.
1.5.1. Con: There can still be condemnation for morally bad acts, as it both protects other people who may otherwise fall victim to another bad act, and it discourages the perpetration of bad acts. Moreover, see [compatibilism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compatibilism).
1.5.2. Con: People are much more complex than just their biological and chemical reactions. We do not know all there is to know about how the brain works.
1.5.3. Pro: Without a soul, freedom is impossible - we are all slaves to our biology.
1.5.3.1. Con: This claim gives no reason to accept it. I.e. it's unsupported and isn't really clear what is meant.
1.5.4. Con: Morality is not only about condemnation. You can have moral system that doesn't care about punishment, but instead focuses on the future and strives to identify worthy goals. Such system doesn't need the concept of personal responsibility at all.
1.5.5. Con: The argument that 'if people are only material beings then free will is impossible' needs to be proven to be valid. This is NOT a statement that can be taken as given.
1.5.6. Con: A moral system that always rewards good deeds and always condemns bad ones is not consistent with what we observe in the world. If it were, then there would be little to no motivation to commit bad deeds, and always motivation to commit good ones.
1.5.7. Con: Religion may actually make morality less attainable since many religions corrupt the notion of morality by offering punishments and rewards depending on adherence.
1.5.8. Con: Some arguments \(such as the [Argument from Free Will](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argument_from_free_will)\) posit that when proposing a supernatural force that knows the future \(especially when they have a plan for that future\), Free Will is nullified.
1.6. Pro: Biology suggests inherent inequality, in that every person is born with different physical strengths and weaknesses; nevertheless, it is "innate" in humans that all human life is valuable. This contradiction can only be resolved by coming from something other than the physical.
1.6.1. Con: The ideal that life is valuable is not innate in all humans. There are people who have no regard for the lives of others, including some [psychopaths](http://tamingthewolf.com/wp-content/uploads/Snakes-in-Suits-Excerpts.pdf).
1.6.1.1. Con: A psychopath is, by definition, an abberation from the "normal" human. Therefore, the default/normal for the human species IS respect for human life. The difference between "normal for a species" and "same across all members of the species" can be found in any biological norm, such as the number of arms on a human. Humans as a species have two arms per specimen, however, there are abnormalities, genetic mutations, and evolutionary variations causing particular members to have different numbers.
1.6.1.1.1. Con: Although true, this is not relevant. What's important is that the ideal that life is valuable is not innate in all humans.
1.6.1.2. Pro: As a direct consequence of this, it cannot be said that sympathy/empathy are proof, or justification, for the spiritual/supernatural.
1.6.2. Con: This claim is based on a very narrow concept of value: physical capacity.
1.6.3. Con: We, as social creatures, are naturally inclined to be concerned for the overall well being of our group/clan/tribe/pack/etc. This innate "value" is quite selective, as evidenced by our warring, oppression, and other misdeeds performed against our fellow Man.
1.6.4. Pro: There would otherwise be no reason to consider human life valuable in the slightest, particularly humans that do not have 'useful' or 'valuable' traits.
1.6.4.1. Con: The valuation of human life is inherently subjective. All morality is based on a scope of consideration and subjective values. One's valuation of oneself, regardless of the source, could be cause for one to value their own life, and one's emotional connection to others and capacity for empathy may be sufficient to value human life.
1.6.5. Con: That people have varying degrees of physical and mental ability in NO WAY invalidates the value of all life. This is a reductio ad absurdum argument that skipped the intermediate steps. Life can be valued in other ways than on a merit system.
1.7. Con: Morals can be universal \(independent of custom or opinion, as opposed to moral relativism\), but not absolute \(independent of context or consequences, as in absolutism\).
1.7.1. Con: There are no universal moral practices.
1.7.2. Con: This is not necessarily true; the full nature of morality is not understood.
1.7.3. Pro: Social species \(like humans\) have built-in predispositions to share values, which is not incompatible with beliefs in supernatural beings.
1.8. Con: To argue that something cannot exist without the supernatural, we would have to first prove the supernatural.
1.8.1. Con: Atomic theory started in Ancient Greece and could be described by Ancient Greeks as a supernatural idea. Eventually atomic theory was proven, but that doesn't mean that you can't argue a case before it is proven. The argument itself will eventually either prove or disprove the theory. That's the point of an argument.
1.8.2. Pro: Even if a God was the origin of morality, this morality would still be subjective to the God and its whims.
1.8.3. Con: Belief in the supernatural, or religious beliefs and therefore organized religion, can exist without the existence of the central supernatural phenomenon in question.
1.9. Con: Some atheists are considered moral by most standards, despite not believing in god.
1.9.1. Pro: Two people meet. One with sacrificial and flagellistic beliefs and the other, an atheist. It would be expected that conflict would arise between the two without any initial negativity toward one another. Its unlikely that a person of sound mind would deal pain to ones self or others without peripheral motivation. Meaning that, without religion, the morals of the two would be much more aligned if the religious individual was also an atheist.
1.9.2. Pro: Some religious practices lead to morally evil behaviors \(holy wars, ritual sacrifices, religious conflicts, etc.\), therefore religion and morality must be disconnected.
1.10. Pro: If humans operated solely based on genetics and environmental factors, we could know the future with absolute certainty if all factors were carefully considered \(eg., by a machine\). Morality must therefore come from something outside and beyond the physical.
1.10.1. Con: This is known to be false following the discovery of quantum physics in the early 20th century. Our universe has been observed to be non-deterministic due to randomness introduced by the action of quantum particles.
1.10.2. Con: An incredibly powerful machine could predict human behavior to a high degree of accuracy; this seems like a wholly conceivable possibility. This doesn't affect moral absolutes.
1.10.3. Pro: Human behaviour is notoriously unpredictable, even when these factors are considered; morality exists as a 'random element', and religion - or at least some form of supernatural, non-physical source - must be behind it.
1.10.3.1. Con: If morality had a fixed set of laws, as most who believe in objective morality seem to think, it would be poorly-suited to fill the gap of a "random element".
1.10.3.2. Con: Unpredictability is a relative trait, not a universal trait; human behaviour is notoriously unpredictable to other humans. A hypothetical predicting-machine with immense amounts of data and computing power may well be able to read us like a book.
1.10.4. Con: Even if morality must come from something outside and beyond the physical, that does not mean that it must come from religion.
1.11. Con: Many religions do not agree on what standard of morality to adhere to.
1.12. Pro: Without the spiritual, there is no connection between strangers and therefore no reason for sympathy to arise over, say, a catastrophic natural disaster causing multiple deaths. Yet, natural sympathy arises, suggesting there is a connection beyond the physical.
1.12.1. Con: Without spiritual or supernatural connection, there are still reasons for which humans feel empathy. Our brains are adapted to allow us to sympathize with others, as this helps us exist as social creatures.
1.12.2. Con: All that is required for empathy is an understanding of how another person must be feeling by comparing their situation to our own situation. If a person were not introduced to religion and encountered someone else whose mother had died, they would only require an idea of the impact on their life were the same thing to happen to them to be able to empathise and the requisite capacity to understand those emotions.
1.12.3. Con: If supernatural/spiritual reasons are the basis for empathy/sympathy in people capable of those feelings then there is no explanation for people who are incapable of those feelings or impaired in their ability to use them, such as those with clinical psychopathy.
1.12.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.6.1.
1.12.4. Con: This is demonstrably false: "morality" is rooted in the biological, it's a trait that all gregarious animals developed to varying degrees. It enhances survivability. See [Patricia Churchland](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gEsEo1p8rlo) on this.
1.12.5. Con: This is a mere assertion; the contingency of connection between strangers on the spiritual has not been established.
1.13. Con: Religion \(the belief in and worship of a supernatural power that guides us\) and morality \(the concept of right and wrong\) are two separate human constructs that only exist through language, communication and a common consensus, but cannot actually be verified and therefore neither exist unless we voluntarily believe and subscribe to them.
1.14. Con: Religion was a useful tool to bring about a 'universal' set of moral principles to the masses, but it is not necessarily the only way that morality can be formulated. For example, the moral virtue of 'right' and 'wrong' can be taught to a child without any need for religion.