Discussion Title: Do you have a civic morale obligation to at least challenge people who believe in conspiracy theories?

1. People have a civic morale obligation to challenge those who believe in conspiracy theories.
1.1. Pro: Some conspiracy theories target certain demographics or even specific people and threaten their safety; therefore it is important to prove that such theories are baseless.
1.1.1. Pro: Numerous [anti-Semitic conspiracies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antisemitic_canard) have circulated widely over the years, leading to hate crimes and even terrorist attacks against Jewish targets.
1.1.2. Pro: Not only has the Sandy Hook conspiracy theory caused [immense psychological harm](https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2018/04/17/603223968/sandy-hook-parents-sue-conspiracy-theorist-alex-jones-over-claim-shooting-was-fa) to the victim' parents by asserting that they've been lying about losing their children, but many of the victims' families have even received death threats as a result of this conspiracy.
1.2. Con: There is often no definitive way to determine whether or not one's claims of conspiracy are false, since common sense varies from person to person.
1.2.1. Con: Our belief in common sense are different, but we still share many things in common. The same language, the same earth, the same air we breath, and living in a world even more connected. Humanity is social and requires us to at least find ways to reconcile differences by trying to establish some proper ways to measure truth. While, sciences can predict things accurately in nature, we have failed to reconcile this with the sciences that deal with trying to understand the human condition.
1.3. Con: People who are closed minded will always defend the false world they've created, even to the death.
1.3.1. Con: Conspiracy theorists had to have been open-minded enough to be convinced of the conspiracy's truth in the first place, therefore it's shortsighted to assume that their minds can't be changed again.
1.3.2. Con: At a certain point, yes. There are people who are too far gone. But others aren't. Others can still be reached.
1.4. Pro: Challenging a person's perception opens up new ways of viewing things and helps people become more empathetic towards one another.
1.5. Con: You bring more attention and legitimacy towards fringe belief systems.
1.5.1. Con: You don't have to do it publicly.
1.5.2. Con: Ignoring a fringe belief rather than addressing it head-on can be interpreted as passive acceptance, which can have devastating consequences if said belief is something that could potentially lead its followers to harm others.
1.6. Pro: Forces people to re-examine evidence they've might of overlooked or accepted to quickly.
1.7. Con: Wasting too much time for very little return. The time and energy spent trying to challenge irrational beliefs could be used for a better cause.
1.7.1. Con: It is not always easy to tell that you've made progress in an online debate. Opponents won't tell you that you changed their minds hardly ever. But sowing doubts is worthwhile.
1.7.1.1. Con: Sowing doubt is exactly what conspiracy theories are doing by cherry picking facts to support a narrative without looking at a bigger picture. I do not think this method is the best one.
1.8. Pro: Awakening them from their false reality could encourage them to take part in more civic duties.
1.9. Con: They'll continue to rationalize a conspiracy to something else, the point is to keep people believing speculation as evidence. Its impossible to keep up.
1.10. Pro: An exchange of ideas always leads to good in the long term.
1.10.1. Pro: Conspiracists investigate factual mismatches in detail. Rebuffing them increases the certainty we have in an established course of events.