Discussion Title: Does Postmodernism oppose progress?

1. Postmodernism opposes progress.
1.1. Pro: Postmodern thought defines progress as an illegitimate social construct.
1.1.1. Con: Postmodernism does not take a cohesive position on any social construct.
1.1.2. Pro: If ontological framework y defines x as an outmoded goal, then it follows that y does not endorse x.
1.1.3. Con: Post-modernists tried to break down a perceived corrupt knowledge creation paradigm and replace it. This is revolutionary progress.
1.2. Con: Postmodernism is progress agnostic.
1.2.1. Pro: Although tenets of postmodernism have been used in practical manners such as legitimizing marginalized narratives, postmodernism itself is a descriptive system.
1.2.1.1. Pro: Similar to misconceptions about evolution that attribute forward motion \(progress\) with selection \(description of random mutation\), forward motion cannot be attributed to postmodernism, which is a description of alternate viewpoints.
1.2.2. Pro: Postmodernism would describe the modernist view of progress as "a single goal amongst many"
1.2.3. Con: Progress results from shared interest in a defined goal. Postmodernism divides interest to the level of the individual and beyond, preventing progress by a paralysis of infinite choice of goals.
1.3. Con: Progress is subjective, it depends on what each individual values in life which is not based on biological needs or facts.
1.3.1. Con: Regardless of what each individual identifies as progress, postmodernism opposes the very concept or pursuit of progress.
1.3.2. Pro: Because different people have different moral perspectives a world where different societies promote different moral objectives results in progress towards a higher quality of life for our population as a whole, provided that people are free to move into societies which best suit their own moral perspective.
1.3.3. Pro: Just because progress can be seen as subjective, doesn't mean it's not desired.
1.3.3.1. Con: Despite it not being a completely perfect philosophical concept, postmodernism offers an intriguing look of what might be our not-so-distant future.
1.3.3.2. Pro: Leisure, productivity and health are indeed subjective, yet desirable.
1.4. Con: Postmodernism leads us to a plural world where many truths and forms of progress are equally possible and worthy.
1.4.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.2.
1.4.2. Con: Postmodernism is not alone in its ability to look at given phenomena through the lenses of the various participants. This ability is shared by others who do not adhere to postmodern thought.
1.4.3. Con: By admission of equal possibility and worth of various truths, objective truth is denied. While phenomena can be interpreted variously, we must admit of an objective truth.
1.4.3.1. Con: Physical objectively verifiable truths cannot be compared to social or moral ideals.
1.4.3.1.1. Con: Progress, if defined as living in accordance with verifiable truth in a manner that is beneficial \(read technological advancement\), can only belong to the category of physical objectively verifiable truth. Any quarrel with Progress that exists outside this domain is a semantic one.
1.4.3.1.1.1. Con: Progress is a qualifier, it is inherently "semantic". It qualifies the end goal of the speaker.
1.4.3.1.1.1.1. Con: Progress is a noun; it is not a qualifier. As to its inherently semantic nature, it could be said to be inherently semantic only in that it is a word, and like all other words it pertains to meaning and could therefore be described as semantic. But there is nothing uniquely inherent in the word progress that makes it "semantic".
1.4.3.1.2. Pro: If I kill a person it is objectively verifiable that the person no longer breathes but it is not objectively verifiable that I was wrong to kill them.
1.4.3.2. Pro: Regardless of one's opinion of Newton, they cannot flap my way into the sky. The law of gravity prevents it, despite my freedom to distrust it.
1.4.3.3. Pro: There exists a Truth that is not constructed by societies, that is verifiably superior to it's alternatives, and it should be sought.
1.4.4. Con: Though infinite viewpoints and behaviors are possible, only a select few will bring you into harmony with your community, family, and your own Being. Most viewpoints would have you ostracized from your social group where you would die alone.
1.4.5. Pro: Post modernism leads us to consider other perspectives before we act, by considering multiple points of view surrounding an issue we are able to act for a common good as opposed to the good of a single party. Moving towards a common good in modern issues is a feature of positive progress.
1.4.5.1. Con: Considering other points of view before acting is laudable. However it is the acting that belongs to the domain of progress. Unfortunately postmodernism as a philosophical framework multiplies points of view to an infinite number, and simultaneously assigns equal validity to each. The result is the negation of importance or validity to any single course of action. This perspective does not foment progress, and often has the opposite effect: it paralyzes it.
1.4.5.1.1. Con: [Validity does not equal truth in formal logic](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Validity) or post-modernism. Post-modernism is designed to show a narrative from an alternate view point and provide social validation similar to validating a person psychologically. i.e. We understand that this is your experience. It is not designed to claim a truth value.
1.5. Pro: Postmodernism questions elements of Enlightenment rationality.
1.5.1. Pro: The enlightenment gave us the root of the scientific model that brought us modern medicine and technology that expanded our lifetimes and life qualities.
1.5.1.1. Con: Postmodernism was born out of a set of non-material disciplines to describe non-material meta-narratives. It is not incompatible with modernism. There is nothing in postmodernism that negates the use or usefulness of the scientific method.
1.5.2. Pro: Postmodernism [claims](https://markpatlan.wordpress.com/2017/07/05/postmodernism-101-part-1-truth-is-dead/) that truth, reason and knowledge are meaningless, and that reason is"the language of madness".
1.5.2.1. Con: The account of postmodernism that ascribes to it the views that "truth, reason and knowledge are meaningless" is largely a [strawman](https://www.viewpointmag.com/2018/01/23/postmodernism-not-take-place-jordan-petersons-12-rules-life/) that draws together snippets from thinkers such as Lyotard, Foucault and Derrida without understanding their arguments in a systematic way.
1.5.2.2. Con: The claim that "reason is the 'language of madness'" is a decontextualization of Foucault's analysis in ["The History of Madness."](https://books.google.com/books/about/History_of_Madness.html?id=B5Pyfip2P1gC) Far from arguing for irrationalism, "The History of Madness" is an analysis of the genealogy of the concept of madness alongside the development of an Enlightenment notion of reason. The quote in question is a description of Enlightenment discourse about madness which claimed that reason had the capacity to comprehend madness.
1.5.3. Con: That some elements of Enlightenment rationality ought to be questioned is perfectly consistent with the principle of progress. For example, [critiquing](https://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/02/10/why-has-race-survived/) the role that Enlightenment's "race concept" played in its understanding of human rationality questions elements of Enlightenment rationality without rejecting the concept wholesale.
1.5.4. Con: Most so-called "postmodern" thinkers in the French academy were in fact influenced by [Spinozistic](https://www.amazon.com/Spinoza-Contra-Phenomenology-Rationalism-Cavaill%C3%A8s/dp/0804791341) forms of rationalism. While these forms of rationalism differ substantially from the empiricist forms of rationalism that dominate the Anglophone academy, they belong firmly to the heritage of the Enlightenment.
1.6. Con: Postmodernism opens progressive possibilities as far as science, art and culture are concerned.
1.6.1. Con: Art should not be thought of as progressive. Different eras, though connected through reaction and influence, are not necessarily improving upon its previous eras.
1.7. Con: Progress is not a desirable goal.
1.7.1. Con: If humans are not working towards moving forward, then there is little meaning to their daily endeavours. Given the agony that meaningless brings to human life, progress is indeed a desirable goal in that it constitutes a purpose.
1.7.2. Con: Happiness and fulfillment comes from a sense of achievement. The feeling of achieving something is reliant on the notion of progress.
1.7.3. Pro: Progress is a social construct, supported by the groups that benefit the most from it.
1.7.3.1. Con: While progress as an abstraction is a construct, if we speak of progress strictly in its relation to technological advancement, which is inherently based on verifiable objective reality, it is not a construct at all. It is rather a behavior that confers power upon its user.
1.7.3.1.1. Con: An Ideal, like progress, is a construction which only widens the circle of assumed correlation while still providing no causation. It expands abstract construction -\>progress to Abstract construction -\> ideal -\> Abstract construction progress.
1.7.3.2. Pro: Progress varies in its aims and evaluations of value from society to society.
1.7.3.3. Con: Progress benefits the groups that most support it.
1.7.4. Pro: Progress is an antiquated concept disproved by the fact that life has no inherent meaning or purpose.
1.7.4.1. Con: The mere existence of ordered processes at the atomic, cellular, organism, and social level invalidates the claim that life has no inherent meaning or purpose.  Since the [law of entropy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entropy#Second_law_of_thermodynamics) holds that everything progresses toward a state of disorder without some expenditure of energy to prevent it, all order must be the product of purposeful action.
1.7.4.2. Pro: Progress is a false assumption on the basis of the retrospective application of metanarratives.
1.7.4.3. Pro: Progress is the meaning that human societies give to life in the absence of an inherent purpose.
1.7.4.4. Con: Without a purpose, all life gravitates toward chaos and death. The fact that you are not dead means that you have some sort of purpose of Being, even if post modernists will not admit it.
1.7.4.5. Con: Life displays purpose upon examination. All forms of life, from single celled organisms to human beings exist and act with the implicit aim of propagating their genetic material. This, more than any other supposed end, constitutes the purpose of life writ large.
1.7.5. Pro: Inventing a new gadget, even a life prolonging one, is not necessarily beneficial to humanity, therefore not necessarily progress.
1.7.5.1. Con: While not necessarily beneficial, it also very well may be beneficial. We have the luxury of here debating the value of technology thanks to many such gadgets, without which we'd be naked in the wilderness.
1.8. Pro: Postmodernism has yet not given us major contributions to life quality or lifespan.
1.8.1. Con: The effect and impact of a way of thinking cannot be measured but rather might be a factor in many areas of progress.
1.8.2. Con: Post-modernism has consistently inspired positive change in arenas where there are disparate social and political power structures by [highlighting](http://www.globalpolitics.net/essays/Krause_Dornelles.pdf) the marginalized narrative.
1.9. Pro: To the postmodernist, truth is categorically invalid. This philosophy makes it impossible to establish authoritative laws and principles for a society to run under.
1.9.1. Con: Postmodernism portrays social and economic order as a feature of an outdated way of living, and the opposite of progress. Thus progress has moved past ideals of class division as a result of postmodernism.
1.9.2. Con: Postmodernism does not claim the non-existence of truth it claims the social relativity of truth claims. Such as plural narratives around the facts of discrimination. There is no singular truth about the experience. It is different for an American White Male than it is for an American Black Female. However the received narrative in a history text only propagates a single story.
1.9.2.1. Con: Experience is subjective, truth is not.
1.9.3. Con: In postmodernism the aim is to destructure a hegemonic narrative. It is an equal power redistribution as opposed to a power grab. If a postmodernist is claiming the equal value of all narratives, this inherently claims the equal value of the original hegemonic narrative.
1.10. Con: [Postmodernism](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/postmodernism/) is a largely ill defined phenomenon. Far from designating a unified philosophical orientation, the label "postmodern" has been applied to a diverse set of \(mostly\) European and American thinkers and writers whose aims and views are in fact quite dissimilar.  While one might find a common "set of critical, strategic and rhetorical practices" and "common interests," these commonalities fall short of anything like a shared doctrine or shared opposition to progress.
1.10.1. Con: A cohesive/unified philosophical orientation has little to do with a method's ability to create change, positive or negative.
1.10.2. Pro: A non-cohesive outlook/orientation is a natural end result of the 'set of critical and rhetorical practices'. If the method is there to validate alternate narratives it falls to reason that practitioners would have alternate narratives.