Discussion Title: Does Pastafarianism deserve the same rights as other religions?

1. To ban rights for Pastafarians is a violation of human rights and religious equality.
1.1. Pro: Pastafarians pray to a god and are therefore a religion.
1.1.1. Con: There are many other systems and rituals that denote a true religion; simply belief in a god is not sufficient.
1.1.1.1. Con: Pastafarians have many other rituals that would then presumably make them valid as a religion.
1.1.2. Con: Pastafarians don't actually pray to a god, they pray to a flying spaghetti monster; realistically, no Pastafarians actually believe it exists. They pray ironically.
1.1.2.1. Con: This is a subjective belief about the motives or thoughts of Pastafarians. It cannot be categorically said that nobody believes in the flying spaghetti monster.
1.2. Pro: Pastafarians classify themselves as religious. Therefore it is a religion.
1.2.1. Pro: There are potentially [thousands of followers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flying_Spaghetti_Monster).
1.2.2. Con: Somebody arbitrarily labelling nonsensical does not afford it credence. Anybody can claim to be anything, that doesn't make it true, far less worthy of legal protection.
1.3. Con: There are insufficient followers of the Flying Spaghetti Monster to classify it as a religion.
1.3.1. Con: There is no 'sufficient amount' needed. If only one person in the world would be in a wheelchair, it would still be great to make the world wheelchair-friendly.
1.3.2. Con: Religion is not a popularity competition but a system of belief; it doesn't matter how many people believe in it for it to be valid or not.
1.3.3. Pro: When nearly a [third of the world](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Major_religious_groups) is Christian alone, the comparably minute number of supposed Pastafarians seems insignificant.
1.3.4. Con: Secularization has leaded to an[individualization of religion](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18076388), therefore the amount of followers is not relevant.
1.4. Pro: An important liberty is freedom of religion, but when you ban a small new religion or judge them 'not serious', this liberty loses all worth.
1.4.1. Pro: It is not a government issue to mandate what people choose to believe. However niche or seemingly humorous, respect should be afforded to belief systems.
1.4.2. Con: If a 'religion' is intentionally making a mockery of the institute it is trying to become a part of, it is not unreasonable to bar them access.
1.4.2.1. Con: This is a fine, and subjective, line. As a result, it is better to err on the side of caution and assume the religion should be treated with respect.
1.5. Con: It is clear to everyone that this is sarcasm and therefore it cannot get the same rights as people that were oppressed for a long time.
1.5.1. Con: Everyone's religion is viewed as a farce by someone else. As such, this is not an acceptable reason to deny them religious status.
1.5.1.1. Pro: Religions, by their nature, exclude or even condemn other religions and beliefs; certainly one cannot claim ultimate precedence over another unless it's measured in sheer popularity.
1.5.2. Con: Although some would call this "clear", that doesn't matter. If only one person is serious, that one person should be taken seriously.
1.5.2.1. Pro: It is far from 'clear'. Beliefs never are.
1.5.3. Con: Oppression is not a 'need' to be taken serious as a religion.
1.5.4. Pro: Most exceptions that are made in name of religion right now, have a very rich culture and history. It is unnecessary to add this sign to the field of exceptions.
1.5.4.1. Con: All religions were new at one point. As such, longevity is not an acceptable qualification for determining religious validity.
1.5.4.2. Pro: Comparing the immense scope and cultural importance of major religions to a fringe mockery is absurd: one is clearly more meritous than the other.
1.6. Con: As the religion is expressly satirical, it can be considered to be in bad faith
1.7. Pro: Even as there are no claims, there are also no claims to God existing, The Flying Spaghetti Monster holds our universe together with his noodly appendages and if he is recognized as a god, he is one.
1.8. Pro: Pastafarians deeply believe in the goals of Pastafarianism, even if they don't actually believe in its tenets. As such their beliefs should be respected.
1.9. Pro: Equality is always of the highest importance. So: all the religious signs should be possible or none.
1.9.1. Pro: Any and all belief systems can be - and are - heavily criticised; to legally penalise one without doing so for the others is flat-out discrimination.
1.10. Con: There is no proof of a flying spaghetti monster. The day that someone brings proof to the table, this belief will gain rights.
1.10.1. Pro: By this logic, no religious belief should have rights
1.10.2. Con: There is no proof for any belief system.