Discussion Title: Does the European Union lack the necessary public discourse to function properly?

1. The European Union lacks the necessary public discourses to function properly.
1.1. Pro: The EU needs genuine leaders elected by democratic process. Few will respect the self appointed.
1.1.1. Con: Leaders are already elected by a democratic process. Citizens elect their representatives at the European Parliament, and chose their own country leader. The country leaders compose the European Council, which elects its own president. The European Commission has a president, nominated by the Council, elected by the Parliament. This president forms \(in consultation with the Council\) a commission of 28 commissaries \(1 per member\), the Commission is then approved by a vote of the Council.
1.1.1.1. Pro: While the democratic processes of the EU are definitely democratic, their opacity to a majority of the European citizens is clearly a problem. The systems are not currently in place for the European populace to have a broad and including debate, where terms like 'the European Comission' and 'the European Council' are used commonly, and with little to no doubt as to their importance.[Europarometer Survey 2011](http://ec.europa.eu/commfrontoffice/publicopinion/index.cfm/ResultDoc/download/DocumentKy/63119) \(p. 40ff\)
1.2. Con: The debates are there. The biggest issue is that the parlaiment cannot suggest new laws but can only vote on them. The only institutions who are able to create new legislation are the commissions who meet in private and only accepts lobbyists
1.3. Pro: Sadly true because there are no European level political parties unlike the USA
1.4. Pro: It is too easy for national politicians to scape goat the EU for their own failings
1.5. Pro: in contrast to national public debates, there are no such things as EU-Newspapers or TV-Channels
1.5.1. Con: Multi-language institutions like arte.tv do support public debates in the EU
1.5.2. Con: Most news sites and newspapers have a section dedicated to reporting on EU politics and ongoing debate.
1.6. Pro: Lack of common language is a fundamental problem. Time to adopt English despite Brexit!
1.7. Pro: Public discourses are essential for a democracy to function properly. The EU is a democratic system.
1.8. Pro: National ambition must not dominate debates that require the whole of Europe
1.9. Pro: The majority of Europeans do not care enough to actually give feedback to the EU institutions
1.10. Con: The EU is in essence a Union of national states, therefore the national debates must suffice to support the EU institutions.
1.11. Con: It is impossible to have public debates in the EU, because the language-barrier stands in the way.
1.11.1. Con: Numerous citizens and representatives in the EU are proficient in multiple languages, making a debate possible. Debates can also easily be translated in any of the member states language making a debate possible to be broadcast on different media.
1.12. Con: The variety of people and political perspective makes it impossible for Europe to have actual public debates.
1.12.1. Con: In the United States, public debates are possible despite a wide variety of population groups and political affiliations. This suggests the same must be possible within the EU as well.
1.12.2. Con: The variety of voices in the union might make reaching a consensus decision harder, but ultimately such a decision is stronger than a national one.