Discussion Title: Election Day Should be a National Holiday in the U.S.

1. Election Day Should be a National Holiday in the U.S.
1.1. Con: It would require voting restructuring to adapt to the uptick in numbers, which might be too complicated or expensive to implement.
1.2. Con: The problem isn't ability to participate in voting, it's the willingness to vote.
1.2.1. Pro: People have the ability to vote via mail in a manner that is much more time convenient. If more people cared about voting, they would.
1.2.1.1. Con: Voters must request a mail ballot ahead of time, requiring more planning. Voting on the day of doesn't have that requirement.
1.2.1.2. Con: Voting by mail isn't well publicized.
1.2.2. Con: By reducing the time investment to vote, the willingness would likely increase.
1.3. Pro: It would increase the amount of voters and make democracy more representative.
1.4. Con: People might spend the holiday on trips or events thereby making it more difficult to vote.
1.4.1. Con: Election Day falls on a Tuesday, making it less likely that people would actually go on vacation than if it were to connect with a weekend.
1.5. Pro: It would reduce wait times at the polls.
1.6. Con: If a new holiday were created, it would impact economic productivity.
1.7. Pro: It would open up more transportation options for people to get to the polls because they'd have more free time to get there.
1.7.1. Pro: People who take public transportation require more time to get around. Knowing they can take that time will make public transportation a feasible way to get to the polls.
1.8. Pro: It could be combined with Veteran's Day so a new holiday wouldn't need to be created.
1.9. Pro: It would reduce barriers and allow people to become more engaged in civics.
1.10. Con: It could increase the amount of uninformed voters.
1.10.1. Con: With fewer barriers to voting, individuals now free to vote will likely be motivated to inform themselves.
1.10.2. Con: Some voters may be well-informed already, but simply do not have the time to vote.
1.10.3. Con: This could be alleviated by simultaneous improvement \(particularly, increased resources\) of education.
1.11. Con: The effect on wait times is unpredictable and if the amount of voters increases to a vast degree, it could still result in long lines.
1.11.1. Pro: If more people are able to vote on Election Day, more people will probably show up to the polls to vote, increasing the size of lines.
1.11.2. Con: This could be solved by investing in a greater amount of 'voting space.'
1.11.3. Con: By allowing people to go to the polls at the time they wish, instead of when they have to, it would likely reduce the instances of "rush hour" at the polls and reduce overall waiting times.