Discussion Title: Electric vehicles are better than fossil fuel vehicles

1. Electric vehicles are better than fossil fuel vehicles
1.1. For Security Reasons.
1.1.1. Pro: For Individual, Local, Regional, and National Security Reasons.  If an individual is not beholden to an external entity for fuel sources for vehicles \(&homes\) then they are inherently more secure.  This applies to Local, Regional, and National scopes.  At the national level we are not beholden to hydrocarbon producers, their lobbying, their subsidies, their unrealized environmental side effects, nor any other national actors, thus making every nation leveraging EVs more secure and self reliant.
1.1.2. Con: This is only true if all of the key components of electric cars are also locally available.   Producing electric cars \(especially batteries\) requires lots of rare materials, not all of which are available in quantity in the US.
1.2. For environmental reasons
1.2.1. Con: In the long term, electric cars running totally on renewable energy will definitely be better. But... it's important to remember that we're not there yet. In my country \(Australia\), due to poor government policy which panders to the powerful coal lobby, electricity os produced by burning coal. Unfortunately, until renewables are fully utilised, electric cars are pretty much fossil fuel cars.
1.2.1.1. Con: I think in order to determine the extent of correctness of this claim, you have to look at specific LCAs, which is difficult, because many parts of the value chain are not transparent. Also, this question is connected to the topic of shared use - the more frequently an electric-vehicle is used \(carsharing\) the better the e-vehicle gets in terms of its LCA.
1.2.1.2. Con: An EV running on the current electricity generation mix is already better for the environment then an ICE. Also this will keep improving every year, so your EV gets cleaner. Buy an ICE now and it will keep polluting the same amount 15 years into the future.
1.2.2. Con: Yes and no, but more to the point no. Simply put there are incredible amounts or resources that go into electric vehicles and modern batteries aren't long term solutions. In the future we won't see na electric car with the same motor and lithium ion battery because they're simply not sustainable long term. Rather a better argument would be hydrogen powered electric vehicles where hydrogen is the main resource to produce electricity to power motors. It is abundant and easily produced
1.2.2.1. Con: There is a whole debate on [kialo.com](https://www.kialo.com/battery-electric-vehicles-are-better-than-hydrogen-fuel-cell-vehicles-2710/2710.0=2710.3) about battery EVs vs Hydrogen cars.
1.2.3. Con: There is much evidence to suggest that the lithium mining process is far more environmentally damaging than the mainstream media is aware of, much less reporting.  [www.greentechmedia.com](https://www.greentechmedia.com/articles/read/lithium-ion-battery-production-is-surging-but-at-what-cost#gs.hUF9=FM) .  Add in the enormous amounts of petrochemicals necessary to process the plastics and polymers used in manufacturing of "green vehicles" to a global marketplace consisting of billions of new cars, and you have a continuation of the same environmental damages that have been occurring for nearly a hundred years.
1.2.3.1. Con: There's an argument that the mining of Lithium and the quantities needed for the life time of the car are much smaller in relative impact than the constant mining for fossil fuel resources to keep the car running.
1.2.3.2. Con: The more batteries are produced, the more batteries can be recycled.  The additional mining required will be a much smaller impact \(compared to contuied extraction of fossil fuels\) as recycling of lithium batteries, or whatever future metals that batteries will be made from.
1.2.3.3. Con: EV traction batteries can be re-purposed for static energy storage after they reach end of life in a car. [nissan.co.uk](https://www.nissan.co.uk/experience-nissan/electric-vehicle-leadership/xstorage-by-nissan.html). There is no part of an ICE vehicle that can be re-purposed in such a manner.
1.2.3.4. Con: The thesis is not that EV cars do not damage the environment in their manufacture, but that they cause less damage than ICE vehicle production. The parent has offered no evidence to support this.
1.2.4. Pro: Oil / gas needs to be carried to refineries and then to gas stations. As long as fossil fuels still exist the transportation of fossil fuel itself will contribute even further to pollution as opposed to electricity: it can be transported from producer to consumer in a more controlled fashion and, furthermore, if the producer coincides with the consumer, electricity can be produced on site \(e.g. solar panels next to a charging station\)
1.2.5. Con: Not only does much of the world's electricity come from coal fired plants, you also need to factor in the open pit mining used to harvest the lithium used in the batteries.
1.2.5.1. Con: Reducing the amount of fossil fuels used to generate the required energy to power vehicles, even if that reduction is not \(immediately\) to zero percent, is still more beneficial to the environment than running vehicles directly on 100% fossil fuel power.
1.2.5.2. Con: The amount of energy produced by coal has been going down every year. Buy an EV now and it will become greener every year
1.2.5.3. Con: Lithium is not sourced from 'open pit' mining. It is evaporated from brine.
1.2.5.4. Con: Lithium is a very small proportion of battery content [en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lithium-ion_battery), and is therefore a very minor contributor to the environmental impact of lithium Ion battery production.
1.2.5.5. Con: Most important reserves of lithium are not hosted in hard rock mines, but in underground brines of saltlakes and salars. There is no comparison between environmental impact of mining than in brine pumping and processing.
1.2.6. Pro: EVs have the potential to become cleaner over the years as you drive them, when more and more renewable energy is added to the grid. Same can't be said about ICEV.
1.2.7. Pro: While manufacturing the battery packs requires a lot of energy, new factories are being build right now to keep up with the \(future\) demand.They are highly automated and use state of the art manufacturing thus increasing efficiency and ultimately bringing down power consumption.
1.2.8. Pro: If the gravimetric energy-density of batteries can be doubled that means you need 1. half the material 2. half the weight 3. half the energy to manufacture the same amount of capacity, thereby cutting most of the impact on climate and environment by half.
1.2.9. Con: The environmental impact of electrical vehicles depends to a considerable extent on the way the electrical power is generated. Clean electrical generation can mitigate the penalty in production energy used--but the US does not have enough clean production to produce this benefit. A further cost not accounted for is replacement batteries. an electric car's battery will not last as long as its frame/structure, so replacing it during the car's lifetime incurs enormous additional cost.
1.2.9.1. Con: Replacing batteries is only a tiny environmental cost because batteries can be melted and almost all of the elements can be re-used to create a new battery again.
1.2.9.2. Con: Many people that drive EV's also have solar panels on their roof. This provides them with cheaper and clean energy to drive their cars
1.2.9.3. Con: Many BEV Owners produce their own PV electricity or pay extra to ensure they use green power.  As the electric grid mix is made cleaner, which is inevitable, BEVs also become cleaner.  Conversely most ICE Vehicles get dirtier over time due to lack of costly maintenance.  The Larger the Battery in a BEV the less cycle depth they are subjected to.  Newer battery technologies deliver ever increasing cycle live and environmental durability and safety.  These lead to longer than expected battery life
1.2.9.4. Con: Batteries do not actually need to be recycled at all. After they are used for cars \(which require them to dispense often above 30-50kW of power\) they can be reassigned as stationary power packs for either homes or even charging stations. Stacked together they can easily give what it takes to charge a car, while themselves charging when the sun and wind are shining and blowing respectively. Only after that is again not chemically possible must they be recycled.
1.2.9.5. Con: As electricity generation becomes more renewable, those with electric cars can take advantage of it. Gasoline cars always burn fossil fuels and thus cannot ever become a cleaner method of transport.
1.2.9.6. Con: The assertion that the battery will not last as long as the vehicle structure is not supported by the evidence. To the contrary, the fact that a second-use market for EV batteries in stationary energy storage is emerging, demonstrates that the battery outlasts the vehicle.
1.2.9.7. Con: The parent refers to the US electrical grid, but the question asks about EVs in general, not just those in the US.
1.2.10. Pro: More batteries connected to the grid can solve distributed baseline problem thereby leading to more renewable electricity production.
1.2.11. Pro: There's a wider picture here. EVs don't just enable sustainable transport. By acting as part of a wider grid-tied electrical energy network EVs also have the capacity to act as essential "Buffers", soaking up excess energy and acting as grid-tied batteries when renewable energy production is quiet. They can actually enable more widespread renewable energy use. Also, as to batttery disposal, used EV batteries can have a useful second life as home-based grid energy storage cells.
1.2.11.1. Con: Note that this is only a side effect when the price of battery is too high to be wildly used as an external storage in households.
1.2.11.2. Pro: Despite of this is only a promise for now, it will come true as the capacity grows.
1.2.12. Pro: We are saving Earth when going away from fossil fuels, think how long will mankind survive on oil. It is a limited resource on Earth. Global catastrophe is not far. With renewable energy we have a chance to go further and longer
1.2.13. Pro: Electric motor last longer compared to an ICE,  a frequently replaceable part is bearing which itself lasts about 10000 hrs of operation, at 4 hrs daily driving it lasts 6.8 yrs. Other parts lasts much longer.
1.2.14. Pro: Production of EVs is far less environmentally damaging than fossil fuel vehicles. Whoever claims otherwise hasn't done its reasearch well. Consider ICE vehicles as part of the oil industry, factor all the catastrophes that happen within the oil industry, take in consideration all of it, with its negative mentality, and you will see that building EVs is far more environmentally friendly than ICE even if we consider the whole chain of process. Thank you ELON MUSK!
1.2.14.1. Con: We should not mix ICE production with the oil industry. I agree that the disadvantages of EV production is far less than the total lifetime exhaust of an average ICE. But I do think producing a 50 KWh battery has more environmental impact than producing an ICE drivetrain.
1.2.15. Pro: The potential environmental impact of fossil fuels simply comes from the materials needed for them. If a country is powered by 100% renewable energy, and electronics and metal are recycled, there is no environmental impact. LI-ION batteries do have a negative environmental impact, but this is dismissed by electronic recycling. Electric cars, such as those from Tesla, have a tremendous potential for the environment, and every US citizen will likely be driving one in the next few decades.
1.2.16. Pro: EVs emit no pollution at the tail pipe
1.2.17. Con: Pollution supplying energy to EVs is created by burning fossil fuels at power stations.
1.2.17.1. Con: Using renewable energy certificates an electric vehicle owner can obtain 100% of their energy via renewables now.[arcadiapower.com](https://www.arcadiapower.com/)
1.2.17.2. Con: A big power station is more efficiënt than a small engine
1.2.17.3. Con: It won't be long before renewable energy can provide 100% of our energy requirements. [The UK already reached 25% fully renewable energy sourcing in 2016](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2016/dec/22/uk-hits-clean-energy-milestone-50-of-electricity-from-low-carbon-sources)
1.2.17.3.1. Con: The energy requirement would drastically go up if these electric vehicles were to be mass adopted.
1.2.17.3.1.1. Con: This isn't actually true. There would be more grid electrical energy required than is being generated today but not substantially more than we have peak power production available. This is because there is a trough of low power requirements overnight which is when most electric vehicles will be charged. That means that the generating power that is currently idle over night can be used to charge the vehicles. [fes.nationalgrid.com](http://fes.nationalgrid.com/insights/forecourt-thoughts-mass-fast-charging-of-electric-vehicles/)
1.2.17.3.1.2. Con: Even if our energy requirements go up, so what? Renewable energy generation is manufacturing constrained not resource constrained. i.e. we can just build out more supply as we need it. The cost of manufacturing constrained generation comes down as we make more of it.
1.2.17.3.1.3. Con: We are actually using less energy by using electric vehicles as they are more efficient than fossil fuels, therefore our energy use overall will go down.
1.2.17.4. Con: Electric vehicles don't care what their primary energy source is as long as it makes electricity.  As cleaner sources of electricity become available electric vehicles, which are pretty clean at the worst of times, become even cleaner.
1.2.17.4.1. Pro: What we get is the freedom of the choice. When using fossil energy we have no chance to switch to clean energy.
1.2.17.5. Pro: EV's  have no direct link to using less non-renewable fuels. as in chances are that the electricity need  to "fuel" EV's are still made using non-renewable fuel. according [www.eia.gov](https://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?id=427&t=3) the U.S. power grid only uses less the 15% renewable fuel for power generation.
1.2.17.5.1. Con: EVs can be charged from renewable sources whereas fossil fuel cars cannot, which makes them better suited for conditions where fossil fuels are unavailable.
1.2.17.5.2. Con: Power plant efficiency far exceeds ICE efficiency, better utilizing non-renewable fuels where used.
1.2.17.5.3. Con: Partially clean electricity production is cleaner than 100% dirty production.
1.2.17.5.4. Con: Ever increasing clean renewable production of electricity is also a part of the changing market. The cars and infrastructure must grow together. Suggesting that EVs should wait for a complete infrastructure is unrealistic.
1.2.17.6. Pro: The more a given energetic matrix depends on fossil fuels in a given economy, the higher the demand for energy is and since most of the energy comes from fossils then electric cars cause more problems that goods, because the more processes you use to change energy from chemical to electrical to motion, the more waste you create so gasoline-cars actually are more efficient. \(Thermodynamics\)
EV will be better when that energy does not comes from thermoelectrical sources.[web.mnstate.edu](http://web.mnstate.edu/marasing/CHEM102/Chapter%20Notes/Ch_04%20ho.pdf)
1.2.17.6.1. Con: Conventional gasoline engines convert about 17% - 21% of chemical energy to power at the wheels. Electrical vehicles convert 59%-62% of energy from the grid to power at the wheels. [\(www.fueleconomy.gov\)](http://\(www.fueleconomy.gov\))
A coal fired power plant is anywhere from 30%-40% efficient. [worldcoal.org](https://www.worldcoal.org/reducing-co2-emissions/high-efficiency-low-emission-coal)
EV: 1 unit of energy \> Power Plant and 0.35 \(1*35%\) energy units remain \> EV and 0.21 \(0.35*60.5%\) units are at the wheels. 
CG: 1 unit of energy \> Combustion engine and 0.19 \(1*19%\) energy units are at the wheels.
1.2.17.6.2. Con: A large energy generator is far more efficient at producing electricity than an internal combustion engine is at moving its car.
1.2.18. Pro: Over the years there have been many oil spills from tankers sinking, oil rig problems which cause massive environmental problems and enormous cost to clean up.
1.2.19. Con: Mining raw materials for manufacturing EVs is more environmentally damaging than mining raw materials for fossil fuel vehicles.
1.2.19.1. Con: There are new technologies available to produce lithium from brines without most of environmental impacts that current solar evaporation process does. Curiously, the problem is that these new technologies will increase dramatically daily production rates. Investor are refractory to this, because it will increase lithium offer, diminishing prices, making business less profitable. In Chile: production cost of lithium carbonate is 3,000 USD/tonne and price +13,500 and rising. Scarcity drives profit
1.2.19.2. Pro: mining lithium for the batteries has heavy environmental consequences, this 2014 [epa.gov](https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2014-01/documents/lithium_batteries_lca.pdf) study sais
1.2.19.3. Con: Mining of the base materials used in current automobiles was extremely harmful to the environment in infancy as well.
1.2.20. Con: Mining/sourcing raw materials to supply fuel for EVs is more environmentally damaging than sourcing raw materials to supply fossil fuel cars.
1.2.20.1. Con: That statement is complete BS.  The "Fuel" source for ICE Vehicles is one of the most dirty and destructive endeavours that humanity has ever undertaken.  BEV fuels are cleaner when supplied from centralized well maintained grid power plants.  BEVs are capable of being fueled from grid wind and solar production.  BEVs are very often fueled by solar energy striking the PVs on the roofs of their owners houses.  The latter two methods are completely emissions free and environmentally beneficial.
1.2.20.2. Pro: Mining the raw materials for fossil fuel cars is less environmentally damaging compared to mining the raw materials for EVs
1.2.20.2.1. Pro: Electric cars require batteries that use rare earth metals that are harmful to the environment to mine and transport.
1.2.20.2.1.1. Pro: Electric vehicles use lithium batteries, but lithium is not green. See the attached link for supporting details

[kitco.com](http://www.kitco.com/ind/Albrecht/2014-12-16-How-Green-is-Lithium.html)
1.2.20.2.1.1.1. Con: As it says in the link, the lithium production process can be improved. For example the machinery like diggers, loaders and trucks could be electrically driven.
1.2.20.2.1.2. Con: The battery does not contain rare earth metals. \(It’s used in permanent magnets that is used in electrical motors\)
1.2.20.2.1.3. Con: Rare earth metals can be recycled when an EV is decommissioned. As such there is a limit to their environmental cost once sufficient metal quantities are in circulation, unlike with fossil fuels that are consumed during use.
1.2.20.2.2. Con: Rare earths only take a small portion of the full weight of the battery pack.
1.2.20.2.3. Con: This is irrelevant to climate change, which concerns GHG emissions into the atmosphere.
1.2.20.3. Con: Only for the Lithium which is 100% recyclable
1.2.20.4. Con: Extracting, transporting and refining oil adds an additional environmental cost to gasoline, a cost which is often not taken into account when comparing EVs to gasoline powered vehicles. There are absolute limits as to how green a gasoline car can be, whereas an EV will create no carbon emissions when charged from a renewable energy source.
1.2.21. Pro: EVs are better for air quality in cities and towns.
1.2.21.1. Pro: Any pollution that EVs cause is centralised to the power stations that create the electricity. In many countries there is a growing proportion of renewables that create no pollution. Where fossil fuels are burned they are held to higher standards than \(often\) badly maintained fossil fuel vehicles.
1.2.21.2. Pro: Delivery vans leave their diesel engines running while delivering. The exhaust fumes get into local buildings are are a nuisance and health hazard for the people inside.
1.2.21.3. Pro: EVs don't emit fumes at the tail pipe and so are better for air quality than fossil fuel vehicles
1.2.21.3.1. Con: Emissions for EVs are shifted to the electric power station which collects and concentrates the pollution in one place, overall the emissions are the same, so EVs are not better than fossil fuel vehicles as far as air quality is concerned
1.2.21.3.1.1. Con: A growing proportion of electricity is generated from renewable sources so there are no emissions at all for that proportion of electricity generated. In many countries around the world for a significant proportion of the year the majority of electricity is generated from renewable sources. This trend is growing pace as renewables become the cheapest way to generate electricity.
1.2.21.3.2. Pro: EV's have less of a negtive impact on air quality than gas guzzlers. Better air quality leads to healthier people.
1.2.21.3.3. Pro: Fossil fuel cars are currently choking up many cities often exceeding safety levels and contributing to the early death of thousands of people.
1.2.21.4. Pro: EVs will have the quickest impact on local air quality
1.2.21.5. Pro: EVs are friendly to my nose and lungs, both on an immediate individual basis and in aggregate when living in a polluted city.
1.2.21.5.1. Pro: Living within a few hundred meters of a highway has consequences for ones health.

[Living near highways has adverse health effects \(Journal Article\)](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1971259/)
1.2.21.6. Con: The pollution created by EVs is centralised at power stations so the people that live locally to the power stations get worse pollution as a result.
1.2.21.6.1. Con: Most people live in cities and towns where many cars are driving, most power stations are in locations where only few people live. So centralising pollution to locations with few people is better then creating pollution in densely populated places.
1.2.21.6.2. Con: This assumes that whatever power station generates electricity for a given area is inherently more polluting than internal combustion cars driving within said area. This might be the case for coal-powered plants, but is not true of, for example, hydroelectric ones.
1.2.21.7. Pro: Many large cities have air pollution problems and must enforce traffic restrictions during bad periods, due to the emissions of combustion cars.
1.2.21.8. Pro: EV vehicles could dramatically reduce air pollution in areas where inversion traps auto exhaust.
1.2.21.8.1. Pro: Could reduce respiratory related medical expenses
1.2.22. Pro: EVs make much less noise than fossil fuel cars meaning that noise pollution is greatly reduced.
1.2.22.1. Pro: Due to the fact that electric engine emits far less sound, implementing EVs can be crucial in noise reduction in more urbanized areas.
1.2.23. Pro: EVs emit little or no carbon dioxide and could help make subterranean roadways feasible as less tunnel-venting to clear CO2 would be required. Roadways could be reclaimed for public pedestrian use.
1.2.24. Con: Currently calculations show that EV are not so green and cause identical if not more pollution to the environment. Production of batteries still uses fuel and harms the environment, an EV does the harm during the production process. Here is a video that explains it: [Are EV really green?](https://youtu.be/17xh_VRrnMU) \[DISCREDITED\]
1.2.24.1. Pro: A few things we should keep in mind while talking about renewable energy sources.
Wind turbines emit almost as much CO2 in their production, trough, digging up rare metals, iron and carbon for the blades.
For solar panels CO2 emissions of digging up the crystals needed and the polluting process of activating those crystals.
And hydro plants, the loss in natural habitat, therefore exterminating part of the CO2 absorbtion.
I do not have evidence for this, but invite others to research this.
1.2.24.2. Con: The video presented as arguments is fatally flawed in it's arguments. In the case of arguing that the production of an EV is more intensive in CO2 emissions; it fails to take into account the emissions from the production of fossil fuel cars. The production of the battery is more intensive for EVs but the EV has far fewer engine parts. The fossil fuel engine parts are often made all over the world and the shipping of those parts represents a major source of CO2.
1.2.24.2.1. Con: The video expressly states the emission for production of both the Electric car and the Fossil fuel car.  This argument would need need to provide a counter source to be seriously considered.
1.2.24.3. Con: The video assumes that all the electricity is generated from coal. That assumption is clearly wrong and is becoming more wrong every day as wind and solar form ever larger part of the grid electricity mix. Remove that wrong assumption from the video and the balance swings dramatically the other way showing EVs are much less emitting than Fossil Fuel cars.
1.2.24.4. Con: The video is not a scientific study. It is a political statement that cherry picks data to support it's view.
1.2.24.5. Con: An EV can do something that no gasoline car will ever be able to do: when fueled from a sustainable source of energy, it creates no carbon emissions. Many EV owners have added solar panels to their homes so they can immediately realize this potential. In eastern Canada, where the electric grid is powered by hydropower, all EVs produce zero emissions. Likewise with areas of the US that are powered by nuclear, solar and wind energy.
1.2.25. Con: Production of EVs is more environmentally damaging than fossil fuel vehicles.
1.2.25.1. Con: During production, software limits can be used to provide different versions of the same car [\(like Tesla\)](https://qz.com/1074721/tesla-intentionally-makes-some-of-their-cars-worse-and-its-good-for-everybody/), for all level's of income you would have the same car with different properties. To do this efficiently with the same with fossil fuel cars, one would need as many productionlines as there are versions of the car.
1.2.25.1.1. Con: Wether you software limit or not has no affect on the environmental cost of production.
1.2.25.1.2. Con: Modern fossil-fuel cars are just as able to be software-locked as electric vehicles.  More advanced computing systems make software locking possible, not the power source.
1.2.25.2. Con: There is no evidence to support the claim that EV production is more damaging.
1.2.25.3. Pro: Each year any vehicle, fossil or other fuel, is used before being replaced saves a huge amount of carbon. Repair before  Replace.  The most fuel efficient EV causes a lot of damage to the environment when it is made.  The most environmentally safe car is probably an old car that has been well maintained.
1.2.25.3.1. Con: Old vehicles use a lot more fuel per mile and produce a lot more pollution per gallon of fuel. For most people it is better to replace the really old vehicles to cleaner ones. Just like replacing old light bulbs with led is cheaper than keeping the old light bulb untill it stops working.
1.2.25.3.2. Con: Eventually an old car will need to be replaced too, and the long term is more important than the short term for environmental issues.
1.2.26. Pro: MIT did a careful study. They worked out that EVs are on average twice as clean as gas vehicles, all things considered: [web.mit.edu](http://web.mit.edu/evt/summary_wtw.pdf)

This advantage remains when manufacturing and recycling emissions are factored in: [www.triplepundit.com](http://www.triplepundit.com/2011/06/full-life-cycle-assesment-electric-cars-compares-co2-impact-conventional-cars/)

A reduction in emissions by half is non-trivial. To say "very little" implies 10% or some similarly paltry figure, which is not the case.
1.2.26.1. Pro: This study was from 2008 when coal accounted for 50% of US generation. It would be helpful to see a recalculation now that coal is down to 30% according to the EIA [www.eia.gov](https://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?id=427&t=3)
1.2.27. Pro: As renewable ways of generating electricity without generating pollutants exist manufacturing fossil fuels is inherently less eco friendly than manufacturing electricity.
1.2.27.1. Pro: This is pure mathematics. If renewable & eco-friendly energy represent X% at this moment and X has been constantly growing throughout history then it is feasible to infer not only that manufacturing energy for electric vehicles is / will be more eco-friendly than manufacturing fossil fuel, but also that manufacturing energy for electric vehicles can become *completely* eco-friendly at one point in the future if the trend is maintained.
1.2.27.2. Con: Manufacturing electricity is not always less eco friendly than using fossil fuels, as electricity might also come from fossil fuels. See [electricitymap.org](https://www.electricitymap.org)
1.2.28. Pro: Electric cars are more efficient than fossil fuel cars.
1.2.28.1. Con: Fossil fuel cars could be equally efficient, it's just that no one has built it yet.  For example, a mechanical flywheel could be built to re-capture braking energy much like the energy created at braking for \(some\) electric vehicles.
1.2.28.1.1. Con: That is completely false. Gas vehicles can not exceed about 35% per thermodynamics and after 100 years of competition and refinements they approach that. The most efficient production ICE car is the pure gas-fueled 2000 Honda Insight at 72mpg, this is the most highly optimized hybrid-powered gas car to date, and leverages EV regen and no idle to pull it off.  Yet all BEVs achieve no less than 100, up to 200 MPGe and have none of the hydrocarbon problems with plug to road efficiency around 90%.
1.2.28.2. Pro: EVs typically use about 250wh/mile. So, about 4 miles per KWh. To refine a gallon of petrol needs about 2KWh of electricity. So before a petrol car has even started moving the EV has travelled 8 miles. The petrol then has to be transported to the petrol station which requires more refined fuel which gives the EV another couple of miles advantage. The petrol engine is then only about 20% efficient whereas the electric is about 60% efficient. In short electric goes further on the same power.
1.2.28.3. Pro: Cost per mile for an EV is less than fossil fuel cars.
1.2.28.4. Con: Teslas aned electric / hybrid SUV are way to heavy to be efficient. We need bicycles and light electric vehicles and should travel the longer distances by train.
1.2.28.4.1. Con: This discussion is comparing EV's to ICEV's. Maybe it is better to start a new thread comparing modes of transport like bicycles and trains
1.2.28.4.2. Con: Weight is only one aspect of efficiency. The overall efficiency \(despite the weight\) is better for electric cars so the fact that some of them are heavier is not important.
1.2.28.5. Pro: EVs use regen braking which returns kinetic energy to the battery when slowing down rather than using brakes which lose the energy to heat.
1.2.28.6. Con: Fuel density of fossil fuels is far superior to current battery energy density.
1.2.28.6.1. Con: Internal combustion engines waste most of that energy. Even the most efficient engines are only 50% efficient, but are impractical for the average person to own.
1.2.28.6.1.1. Pro: only engines that are 50% efficient are gigantic power plants that use many afterburners to turn most of the heat into usable power. No automotive engine reaches 30% efficiency
1.2.28.6.2. Con: Even though the fuel density of fossil fuels is higher, it doesn't change the fact that electric vehicles are still more efficient.
1.2.28.6.3. Con: That isn't what the word "efficiency" means. Efficiency and energy density are different things. 

That advantage is also largely mitigated by the fact that electric motors are 6 times more efficient than gas engines, which narrows the effective gap between the two considerably.
1.2.28.7. Con: Average weight of the fuel tank is much lower than current battery packs.
1.2.28.7.1. Con: Internal combustion vehicles waste 3/4 of the fuel in that tank in the form of waste heat.
1.2.28.7.2. Con: Battery mass is constant whereas the fuel tank's contents vastly affect the overall weight of the car, cutting out engineering optimizations that could otherwise be advantageous to an EV.
1.2.28.7.3. Con: Looking at only the weight of the battery or the fuel tank creates an incomplete image. You have to consider the weight of the entire system. ICE's are much heavier than electric motors. With the motor or piston engine in the picture, the weight difference is acceptable.
1.2.28.8. Pro: Electric vehicles are typically charged during off-peak energy loads when electrical demand is low. The means more value can be captured from existing energy infrastructure.
1.2.28.9. Pro: Electric vehicles do not create pollution and waste energy [when idling](https://www.afdc.energy.gov/uploads/publication/idling_personal_vehicles.pdf).
1.2.29. Con: The disposal of millions of batteries will be a big issue, as a  way to do it that is not damaging for the environment yet has to be found...
1.2.29.1. Con: Lithium supplies are largely mined from the ABC area \(Argentina, Brazil, Chile\) - EV's are expected to hit only 20% of [lithim demand by 2020](https://waste-management-world.com/a/1-the-lithium-battery-recycling-challenge).  Cobalt is much more expensive in EV batteries, and [is already a focus of US recycling](https://investingnews.com/daily/resource-investing/critical-metals-investing/cobalt-investing/recycling-cobalt-sustainable-and-affordable/) and the markets are prepared to capture the waste when economically viable.
1.2.29.2. Con: Lithium is infinitely recyclable. Renault has a system where you use their batteries and they take them back for recycling at the end of life.
1.2.29.3. Pro: Recycling batteries on the a huge scale will be a challenging operation
1.2.29.3.1. Con: It will not be as challenging as stopping climate change. Renault is already collecting and recycling their batteries
1.2.29.4. Con: Plans to reuse, recycle and safely dispose of EV batteries are already made and can be executed. [edmunds.com](https://www.edmunds.com/fuel-economy/what-happens-to-ev-and-hybrid-batteries.html)
1.2.29.4.1. Pro: By 2030, almost 1.5 million EDV batteries will reach end of life. By that time, close to half the end of life EDV batteries will be lithium-based, with the remainder being NiMH batteries
The constituents of EDV batteries \(mostly nickel from NiMH batteries and cobalt from Li-ion batteries\) provide an economic incentive for recycling at this time. Battery designs are changing so that they contain less-valuable materials; this is a concern for the economics of future recycling efforts
1.2.29.4.2. Pro: Renault already does this with their battery leasing scheme
1.2.29.4.3. Pro: Companies already in the battery recycling business \(Retriev, RMC, Umicore, Glencore/Xstrata, etc.\) can process large-format NiMH and Li-ion batteries as long as they are broken down to smaller components \(cells or packs\). Companies with smelting operations \(sometimes large global companies such as Umicore, Glencore/Xstrata, etc., with global supply chains\) are interested in recycling EDV batteries because of their metal content
[waste-management-world.com](https://waste-management-world.com/a/cec-report-electric-vehicle-battery-recycling-to-surge)
1.2.29.4.4. Pro: Reuse: battery second life is already a reality today, as the use of second hand EV batteries for energy storage purposes illustrate \(in combination with [wind energy](https://electrek.co/2016/09/22/bmw-bosch-energy-storage-facility-built-from-batteries-from-over-100-electric-cars/); or for [building applications](http://www.amsterdamarena.nl/default-showon-page/amsterdam-arena-more-energy-efficient-with-battery-storage-.htm)\). Recycling: The business case for recycling Li-ion batteries will develop with scale, and will also become a critical issues in many countries to reduce dependency on critical raw material imports.
1.2.29.5. Con: There actually is a material called graphene, able to replace lithium base batteries in near future. This material as the name suggests is made out of carbon, therefore ecological. It is foretold by many futurists and scientists that this new way of storing energy will indeed revolutionize society and almost every single aspect of it, due to fact that current batteries are indeed bottlenecking further and faster technology improvement.
1.2.29.5.1. Con: There are many many battery claims and almost none of them fit ALL the requirements for usage in an EV in the end \(price, lifespan, energy density, power density, ...\).
1.2.30. Con: Recycling materials from fossil fuel cars is easier, cheaper, more effective and less environmentally damaging than EV materials.
1.2.30.1. Con: Recycling of BEV should be cheaper and easier and more effective than an ICE.  The only part of a BEV subject to wear and needing maintenance and recycling is the Battery, which have longer lifespans than commonly thought.  Other BEV consumables are wipers and tires, the powertrains are simple and exceedingly robust.  Conversely a worn out ICE Vehicles has literally it's entire powertrain to replace, engine, emissions, fuel systems, all of which are very complex and not easily recycled.
1.2.30.2. Con: EV traction batteries can be re-purposed for static energy storage. Re-purposing is less environmentally damaging than re-cycling. There are no parts of an ICE car that can be re-purposed on a large scale.
1.2.30.3. Con: This does not pose a negation of the predicate, since the continous use over years of a fossil fuel vehicle lead to way more environmental damage than recycle its electric counterpart components.
1.2.31. Pro: EVs emit less CO2 over their life time \(mining, manufacture, fuelling and disposal\) than fossil fuel vehicles.
1.2.31.1. Pro: The energy for the EV can be produced locally eliminating the need for long transports of oil.
1.2.31.1.1. Pro: I would add to this that topics such as microgrids, pushed by the increasing use of blockchain tech / solutions, will also be a driver of this. E-mobility as such needs to be viewed from the wider perspective of "future, green, connected, smart and sustainable mobility".
1.2.31.2. Pro: Production of electricity for driving EVs is less environmentally damaging compared to drilling, extracting, transporting and refining oil.
1.2.31.2.1. Con: Energy for EVs has to be produced in often environmentally unfriendly power plants, such as coal or gas.
1.2.31.2.1.1. Con: As we transition the power grid to a higher percentage of renewables, all electric vehicles automatically become greener
1.2.31.2.1.2. Con: Refining petrol and diesel uses a significant amount of electricity. Often refineries have their own dedicated power plants that are mostly coal powered. It takes several KWh of electricity to refine a litre of petrol, an electric car could have already driven about 8 miles on that electricity.
1.2.31.2.2. Pro: Electric cars can be fuelled by renewable electricity so they don't use valuable non-renewable fuels.
1.2.31.2.3. Con: Electric vehicles are powered by an electrical gird. In most places in the United States, this electrical grid is coal. Therefore, electric cars in the US depend upon fossil fuels. For electric cars to be green, we need the electrical grid to be green energies \(solar, wind, nuclear, hydro, geothermal, etc\).

[scientificamerican.com](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/electric-cars-are-not-necessarily-clean/)
1.2.31.2.3.1. Con: Many states in the USA are moving rapidly to green sources such as wind and solar as they see the financial benefits of doing so.
1.2.31.2.3.2. Con: While there is a concern in certain regions for powering EVs with grid power sourced by coal, it should be determined if EV owners are either powering their EV charge at home via solar/wind investments, or via renewable energy fueling stations.

Tesla is powering supercharger stations with solar power in many locations, offsetting concerns about coal powered electricity.[gigaom.com](https://gigaom.com/2012/09/24/tesla-unveils-free-solar-powered-car-charging-stations-for-model-s-owners/)
1.2.31.2.3.3. Con: The USA is falling rapidly behind the rest of the world in deploying renewable energy sources. Other countries notably China and many in Europe are rapidly deploying renewable sources. In the UK in 2017 many days were completely coal free \(the first time since the industrial revolution began\) and often the electricity price in Germany goes negative because of the surplus of renewable energy.
1.2.31.2.4. Pro: -> See 1.2.31.2.1.2.
1.2.31.3. Pro: EVs use a mixture of energy input which includes a growing percentage of renewables. They therefore emit less CO2 than fossil fuel vehicles per mile.
1.2.31.4. Pro: Our ways of transporting electricity are more environmentally friendly than our ways of transporting fossil fuels.
1.2.31.5. Con: -> See 1.2.24.
1.2.31.6. Con: The batteries production produce too much co2 yet, as much as [8 years of usage](https://wattsupwiththat.com/2017/06/20/tesla-car-battery-production-releases-as-much-co2-as-8-years-of-gasoline-driving/), and by that time may need to be changed. on which you need to add co2's production costs
1.2.31.7. Con: Electricity generated from coal is very bad from a noxious emissions and CO2 point of view. In many parts of the world electricity is generated from coal. If that is used to charge EVs they are less clean than fossil fuels.
1.2.31.8. Con: Manufacturing fossil fuel cars is less environmentally damaging than EVs because the energy required in the manufacturing process is less.
1.2.31.8.1. Con: EVs being built today are likely to be able to last about 1 million miles \(about 5 times further than fossil fuel cars\). That means that we will only need to manufacture 1 EV for every 5 fossil fuel cars we would have built. If the environmental impact of one EV is the same as one fossil fuel car, this means EVs are 5 times more environmentally friendly.
1.2.31.8.2. Pro: There are fewer parts in an electric car so the supply chain is necessarily smaller, transportation is less and so overall EVs are less environmentally damaging for the manufacturing process.
1.2.31.8.3. Con: This is an inherent quality found whenever you compare small scale manufacturing to large streamlined manufacturing. We are not yet to the point of diminishing returns on manufacturing efficiency from increased output of this type of "widget". 

Increasing production of EVs is likely to mitigate this concern, and therefore this is not likely to be an inherent quality of EVs. Therefore this is not a valid argument against EVs due to a confounding variable.
1.2.31.9. Con: Electric vehicles have very little environmental benefit. Emissions wise, a small EV such as a Nissan Leaf is approx equivalent to a 38 mpg gasoline car which is within the range of comparable cars. It's a simple calculation using EPA figures. [www.epa.gov](https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gases-equivalencies-calculator-calculations-and-references)
1.2.31.9.1. Con: The figures on the epa site only take into account the fuel burned. They do not consider refining and transportation emissions. As such the figures are skewed in favour of oil and are not reliable.
1.2.31.9.2. Con: -> See 1.2.26.
1.2.31.10. Con: Both inherently and because of highly subsidized operation, electric cars are likely to be driven farther, mitigating the small per-mile-traveled environmental benefit
1.2.31.10.1. Con: This is invalid because that's not how math works. The further and longer the car is driven the better the environmental benefit.
1.2.31.10.2. Con: Ecological costs happens at vehicle manufacturing and while driving the vehicle. The ecological manufacturing cost is spread out per mile driven, meaning that the more miles the car is driven the lower the impact per mile and the better the car is ecologically rated overall.
1.2.31.10.3. Con: Subsidies of vehicles do not incentivize drivers to drive farther.
1.2.31.10.4. Pro: Electric cars are cheaper to operate per mile, and receive even more in subsidies than standard cars. Lower cost of operation leads to higher miles traveled, worsening suburban sprawl. The evidence is clear in a simple comparison between the USA and all other developed nations
1.2.31.10.5. Con: The oil industry is much more highly subsidised than the comparatively small level of subsidies on EVs. [independent.co.uk](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/uk-government-pays-6bn-a-year-in-subsidies-to-fossil-fuel-industry-a6730946.html) [blogs.lse.ac.uk](http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/politicsandpolicy/new-figures-published-by-the-imf-show-the-uk-provides-more-subsidies-for-fossil-fuels-than-renewables/) [priceofoil.org](http://priceofoil.org/fossil-fuel-subsidies/)
1.3. For economic reasons
1.3.1. Pro: Electric cars are just one part of a much bigger picture. Eventually all sectors of transportation are going to implement an electric propulsion system. They will benefit greatly from the technology and economy of electric cars.
1.3.1.1. Pro: Electric Battery Powered and Fueled Aircraft have been emerging recently and these benefit from economy of scale cost improvements and energy density advancements driven by ground BEV industries.
1.3.1.2. Pro: BEV adoption and increased saturation will drive grid power renewability and enhancement.  With the ability to tap into vehicle storage advanced micro-grid capabilities will enhance reliability and disaster response capabilities.  BEV can become a massive portable infrastructure component capable of powering emergency services for large cities to small towns much more quickly than repairs to damaged stationary assets.
1.3.1.3. Pro: Increased renewable energy resources thanks to BEV transportation adoption will allow for the potential excess energy resources to create hydrogen and oxygen propellant for inter planetary rockets to be sustainably utilized on enormous scales.  Once off Earth all ground transportation will need to be BEV powered because of it's superior efficiency and lack of requiring available oxygen to accommodate combustion.  Also renewable H2+O2 combustion "fire" cooking \(BBQ\) may be desirable to humanity.
1.3.2. Pro: A great benefit of EVs is the fact that owners/private citizens can generate their own electricity. This will have a tremendous dual benefit to society as a whole as it will not only speed up our departure from our over dependence on current energy providers and those few oil rich countries that supply them but will also generate a more beneficial form of wealth for society as a whole.
1.3.3. Con: EVs will require significant investment in the electricity grid to make large scale adoption viable.
1.3.3.1. Pro: In the US the electric power grid is not well setup for large scale EV deployment. A gradual deployment allows the grid infrastructure to evolve gradually which is significantly more cost effective than a rushed transition.
1.3.3.2. Con: -> See 1.2.17.3.
1.3.3.3. Con: EVs could become a vital part of a smart electricity distribution network as the battery storage could be used at times when the grid usage  is at a peak.
1.3.3.3.1. Pro: This is already a thing. A dutch trucking company achieved it. And there are other programs building POC for this. This was explained well recently at the fully charged event. Cycling batteries in a controlled manner can help enforce the durability.[Vehicle-To-Grid | Fully Charged Live 2018 Talk 12](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qLE2SrDNPZc)
1.3.3.3.2. Con: This will not become feasible as it degrades the battery,decreasing its value and due to interconnect regulations/safety issues. [cleantechnica.com](https://cleantechnica.com/2016/08/22/vehicle-to-grid-used-ev-batteries-grid-storage/)
1.3.3.4. Con: EVs could solve excess supply of renewable energy \(the storage problem\) given an accompanying smart energy network which could allow EVs to refuel at higher rate during periods low demand for energy.
1.3.3.5. Pro: I have trouble believing that individual EV owners would allow the power company to run their car battery down to "balance the grid" leaving them with limited range in their cars.  Imagine the problem the first time someone needed to drive to the hospital but their car had no charge because the power company had used the charge in their car to run someone's air conditioner.
1.3.3.6. Pro: EVs need electricity and the production of energy is expansive and not totally ecologic. If everyone had a EV where does electricity will come from ?
1.3.4. Con: The cost and environmental pollution for implementing electric cars large scale would far outweigh a gradual transition from fossil fuel cars to electric. Not to mention implementation of reskillling mechanics and repairman etc.
1.3.4.1. Con: This claim is not truly a con. It's not arguing that EV's are NOT better than fossil fuel vehicles, just that the transition speed should be slow/slower.

It could reasonably be moved to the pro side and read "a gradual transition to EV's would not only be beneficial, but the slow pace of change can allow reskilling mechanics/repairmen etc. and allow the cost and environmental pollution to be handled more easily."
1.3.5. Pro: Guiding people to buy new cars \(electric ones in this case\), will boost the economy
1.3.5.1. Con: Buying in general boosts the economy. Buying fossil fuel cars will also boost the economy, so the point that buying electric cars boosts the economy does not further the argument.
1.3.6. Pro: The fact that oil has such a grip on society is status quo; electric vehicles becoming the norm would shift investor positions out of the oil industry, only snowballing growth in the electric vehicle space.
1.3.7. Pro: The inevitable transition to EVs will drive huge commercial activity \(similar, but much larger in scale, to the LCD flat screen television revolution which swept away CRT televisions in less than 10 years and drove huge commercial opportunities\).
1.3.7.1. Con: The transition to EV is causing limits in the supply chains for cobalt, lithium and nickel. This shift in investor positions creates new stresses on society worldwide, including child labor, poor working conditions and profits funding violent groups. It is following the historical wrongs of the fossil fuel supply chain.
1.3.7.1.1. Con: In recent news, several car makers came about ensuring supply chains where ethical. Other car makers not in the agreement will definitely opt in in one way or another.
1.3.7.1.1.1. Pro: Car makers that are late to the party can ally with those who are already there so they don’t have to reinvent the wheel and benefit from the others expertise and supply chain.
1.3.7.1.2. Con: The only current stress \(end of 2017\) is on cobolt where there are concerns about working conditions and child labour. Supply chains for lithium and nickel are under control \(although auto companies who are late to the party are having trouble obtaining sufficient quantities\).
1.3.7.1.3. Pro: If all cars were a Chevy Bolt, nickel supply chain would have to increase 105% and lithium 2898% according to the attached study. [mining.com](http://www.mining.com/web/massive-impact-evs-commodities-one-chart/?utm_source=digest-en-mining-171022&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=digest)
1.3.7.1.3.1. Pro: Economies change all the time.  Were it not for the hydrocarbon cars need for catalysts to lower the toxicity of their NOx combustion byproducts, there would be substantially less PGMs like platinum and palladium.  The industrial revolution caused dramatic increases to all mineral industries but we would not give up the advancements afforded by those historic changes.  Taking the studies thought experiment to the next stage, once those resources are extracted they will be recycled once worn out.
1.3.7.1.3.2. Con: This Is a non-argument. We never jump from one technology to the other in one pass. Like if everyone ate spaghetti we would not have enough tomatoes. Never going to happen. For cars if/when all passenger cars become electric we will have more than enough time to find technology to accommodate the switch and the pressure will be high to find better and cheaper solutions.
1.3.7.1.3.3. Con: The Chevy Bolt is a compliance car; the claim only works for the Chevy Bolt. Once you include all EVs the numbers would be different.
1.3.7.1.3.3.1. Con: Changing models used for such a study may change the numbers either way, better or worse. From the attached study:"It’s also worth noting that the Bolt uses low amounts of nickel in comparison to Tesla cathodes, which are 80% nickel."[mining.com](http://www.mining.com/web/massive-impact-evs-commodities-one-chart/?utm_source=digest-en-mining-171022&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=digest)
1.3.7.1.3.4. Con: New research into graphene batteries looks promising, as does research into renewable ways to create graphene. 

[Example Study on Graphene and Renewable Energy](https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/technical-documents/articles/materials-science/graphene-based-composites.html)
1.3.7.1.4. Con: Lithium is one of the most plentiful elements on Earth and does not require deep mining. It can be readily found in areas once covered by oceans.
1.3.8. Pro: The economy sits within society, which sits within ecology. If the environment collapses, the economy will also collapse. Fossil fuels are detrimental to the environment, and therefore to the economy.
1.3.9. Pro: Innovation will create more jobs and environmental benefits will contribute greatly to the economy in long term.[\[1\]](https://www.ucsusa.org/clean-energy/renewable-energy/public-benefits-of-renewable-power) [\[2\]](https://www.afdc.energy.gov/fuels/electricity_benefits.html)
1.3.10. Pro: Tecnological advances have always been good for economy, the opposite is true for tech stagnation
1.3.11. Pro: Electric vehicles have a better economic potential because it requires engineers to prototype better engines for the electric cars. And what would be lost in gas sector jobs will be won in electricity sectors jobs.
1.3.12. Pro: Alternatives to fossil fuel-based transportation can only emerge by employing new technologies and allowing them to mature with consumer use. Look how far the internet has come in 20 years. Innovation and competition help create better products and services. EVs are competing in the infancy stage and will surpass fossil fuel automobiles as the technology matures.
1.3.12.1. Pro: To reinforce how early in BEV development we are only in 2017 did the Chevy Bolt become the first mass production non Tesla vehicle to offer a 60kWh battery. In 2012 the anti establishment manufacturer Tesla began with no smaller that a 60kWh battery which was the least popular.  As the market leader we should consider 60kWh as the low bar for modern BEVs easily capable of 1 million miles per battery, with second lives as stationary storage, with their replacements being even higher energy dense
1.3.12.2. Pro: Early 1900 BEVs were superior and preferred over ICE vehicles of the same time.  Since hydrocarbon fuels rapidly gained enough leverage to suppress and undermine non-hydrocarbon competition Electric Vehicles have been uncannily absent from transportation industries.  With the exception of several weak or resisted appearances, the most recent using Hydrogen and Fuel Cells to minimize BEV potential and allow nearly all leases to be terminated.
1.3.13. Con: Fossil Fuel cars have been a primary driver of economies world wide for nearly 100 years, driving innovation, employment, making transport cheaper and more efficient. It will take at least 20 years for EVs to gain significant market share to make such a claim.
1.3.13.1. Con: Nowadays EV's Batteries are made with Rare Minerals 'ingredients'. Most of the Global reserves of these minerals are mined in a very few number of  countries like Bolivia, China or Congo Republic. These means the Global  Supply will be in hands of fewer countries than OPEC \(Oil Producers\). If today we are experiencing price conflicts with Oil dealing with OPEC, imaging dealing with even fewer countries...\(see [Cobalt for example](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2017/jul/29/electric-cars-battery-manufacturing-cobalt-mining)\)
1.3.13.2. Con: The pros and cons of a technology shouldn't be judged on history alone, or no new technologies could fourish.
1.3.13.3. Con: Irrelevant. This is how development works. It always takes time for industries to pick up, if no one invested in the car, we would still be on horse power. Just as we moved from horse to car, we move from car to EV.
1.3.13.4. Con: The same was true of horses when gas automobiles were new.
1.3.14. Pro: EVs are cheaper to run than fossil fuel vehicles \(both to fuel and to maintain\). [theguardian.com](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2017/dec/01/electric-cars-already-cheaper-to-own-and-run-than-petrol-or-diesel-study)
1.3.14.1. Pro: EVs do more miles per unit of currency on fuel cost than fossil fuel cars
1.3.14.2. Pro: EVs require less maintenance than fossil fuel cars
1.3.14.2.1. Pro: EVs use fewer consumables such as oil. Fossil fuel vehicles need regular oil changes.
1.3.14.2.2. Pro: Fossil fuel vehicles have parts that have to replaced at relatively low mileages \(for example cam belts, spark plugs, clutches\).
1.3.14.2.3. Pro: Fossil fuel engines wear out faster than EV motors. As the fossil fuel engine ages it becomes less efficient eventually needing to be replaced or scrapped far earlier than an equivalent EV.
1.3.14.2.4. Pro: Electric vehicles \(that are being built today\) are capable of 1 million miles, some 5 times more than fossil fuel cars. This makes them more economical.
1.3.14.2.4.1. Con: Nearly all internal combustion engine vehicles are capable of 1 million miles of use. It is due to marketing and mass production reasons \(that will affect EVs similarly\) that most ICE vehicles do not stay in use through 1 million miles.
1.3.14.2.4.1.1. Con: Not many fossil fuel cars make it to 1 million miles without having a substantial part of the car replaced. For example the engine, gearbox, clutch etc. Fossil fuel cars that get to 1 million miles are not 100% the same car that they were at mile 1. It is disingenuous to suggest that ICE cars run1 million miles.
1.3.14.2.4.1.1.1. Con: Some car manufacturers [have clubs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Car_longevity#High_mileage) for vehicles with high mileage.
1.3.14.2.4.1.1.2. Con: [The Ship of Thesus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ship_of_Theseus) thought experiment you allude to has been referenced before. [The general consensus](https://www.quora.com/Is-an-old-car-that-has-had-all-of-its-parts-replaced-with-new-identical-parts-still-the-same-old-car-or-a-brand-new-one-Why) is that if you allow one replacement part to not render the whole sufficiently different, then you must allow an infinite number of replacement parts.
1.3.14.2.5. Pro: Electric cars require less maintenance because they have fewer moving parts.
1.3.14.2.6. Pro: EVs typically are augmented with regenerative braking which uses the electric motor as generator to slow the car and to harvest energy, which requires less maintenance of the traditional brake parts \(rotors, pads, and fluid\) that are still in an EV.
1.3.14.2.7. Pro: This is also a reason that they do not pollute in any quantity near fossil fuel cars. None of the leaky oils, fluids, and greases that pollute again and agin every time they have to be replaced in a gas engine.
1.3.14.2.8. Con: However, when EVs do need to be maintained their parts are more integrated. This makes the cost of replacement parts higher and requires repairs be performed by highly trained specialists rather than general mechanics.
1.3.14.2.8.1. Con: This is not true for all models.
1.3.14.2.8.2. Con: Hobbyists have been building their own EVs in home garages for decades.
1.3.14.2.8.3. Con: ICE cars are more complex and require more integration than EV cars. Where an EV requires a simple electric motor and simple gearing mechanism an ICE car requires an ICE, Air Intake/Filtering, Air/Gas Mixture Mechanism Now Computerized, More Complex Transmission, Exhaust/Muffer/CC.
1.3.14.2.8.4. Con: After the real popularization of the EVs, that cost should get reduced and the mechanics should be already qualified to deal with that kind of vehicle.
1.3.14.3. Pro: When I transitioned from a V8 powered Audi to a Tesla, my monthly electric bill went up $75, but my monthly gasoline expense dropped by $225.
1.3.15. Con: Fossil fuel cars are cheaper to buy \(both new and used\)
1.3.15.1. Con: EVs are now cheaper [theguardian.com](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2017/dec/01/electric-cars-already-cheaper-to-own-and-run-than-petrol-or-diesel-study)
1.3.15.1.1. Con: The skip-level claim was about low cost to purchase or lease, not low cost of operation and maintenance. This is a short-time-preference vs. long-time-preference misunderstanding. Your Con does not directly address the claim.
1.3.16. Pro: -> See 1.2.31.10.5.
1.3.17. Con: EVs are heavier than fossil fuel cars contributing to more wear and tear on road infrastructure.
1.3.17.1. Con: Much of the weight in EVs is in the battery. New research is being done into graphene batteries. These batteries would be far lighter than traditional batteries, and could mitigate this concern significantly by the time EV numbers are large enough to justify concern around this cost.
1.3.17.1.1. Con: Graphene is prohibitively expensive and difficult to make in large quantities. [investingnews.com](https://investingnews.com/daily/tech-investing/graphene-investing/graphene-cost/?nameplate_category=Graphene%20Investing)
1.3.17.1.1.1. Con: So were Lithium Ion batteries compared to the cost of the car. That’s why the Gigafactory was built. It will be in the manufacturers interests to increase energy density - either through amount of electricity stored or total weight/volume of battery as this will make them more efficient/go further. This means higher sales.
1.3.17.1.1.2. Con: After the real popularization of the EVs, that cost should get reduced, by [The Law of Supply and Demand](https://www.investopedia.com/university/economics/economics3.asp). and the industry should get to a cheaper production.
1.3.17.1.2. Con: Tesla is unlikely to switch from lithium to graphene due to the cost.[investingnews.com](https://investingnews.com/daily/tech-investing/graphene-investing/graphene-battery-tesla/)
1.3.17.1.3. Pro: EV technology including battery technology will improve. The improvements may make the original argument true.
1.3.17.2. Con: Fact check: The kerb weight of an Audi Q7 and a Tesla Model X are both ~2400kg. They are both similar in size and carry the same number of people.
1.3.17.3. Con: Wear on tear on road infrastructure also comes from the pollutants that fossil fuel cars leave.
1.3.17.4. Con: Roads are designed to carry much heavier vehicles like lorries and fully laden  vans on a regular basis.
1.3.17.4.1. Con: You cannot compare an electrical car with a fossil fuel lorry
1.3.17.4.1.1. Con: Roads suffer a lot more from 1 heavy lorry than 100 cars at 1/10th of the weight. So the weight difference between an ICEV and EV doesn't matter much for the roads.
1.3.17.5. Con: The weight of an average family car has increased by around 50% over the last 30 years and this has not been a hindrance to their adoption. \(Mk 1 Golf: 950kg; Mk 7 Golf 1400kg\)
1.3.17.6. Con: Even if in the short term Graphene batteries don't come through Aluminium and other light-metal batteries are coming.
1.3.17.7. Con: The extra weight and use on the road is so minute that it is irrelevant.
1.3.17.8. Con: Faster and more frequent charging facilities will enable smaller batteries and lighter EV's.
1.4. For social reasons
1.4.1. Pro: When owning an electric vehicle, your social status and respect will grow because they are usually more expensive
1.4.1.1. Con: Respect does not come from the amount of money one spends.
1.4.1.2. Con: social status drives consumerism, which put the world in its current state of distress
1.4.1.2.1. Con: Actually, people are better off now \(globally\) than they have ever been.[theguardian.com](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/sep/11/news-isis-syria-headlines-violence-steven-pinker) [singularityhub.com](https://singularityhub.com/2016/11/01/why-the-world-is-better-than-ever-and-will-get-better-still/#sm.00001l0r0p1rw3dp5s8gyb7hilcn2) [vox.com](https://www.vox.com/2015/7/13/8908397/11-charts-best-time-in-history) [blogs.worldbank.org](http://blogs.worldbank.org/voices/water/why-are-we-blind-to-all-our-human-progress-and-development-harvards-steven-pinker-has-an-explanation)
1.4.2. Pro: Owning an EV is socially more responsible than owning fossil-fuel powered vehicles because of their lower carbon footprint, their vastly better fuel efficiency, and their low emissions in urban areas.
1.4.3. Pro: Driving an electric vehicle would enhance you social status amongst people that care about environmental issues.
1.4.4. Con: -> See 1.3.7.1.
1.4.5. Con: Not only does conflict over oil lead to war, but oil directly funds war.
1.4.5.1. Con: True but even by switching to electricity for vehicular propulsion, the mass of oil used is used to make other kind of products
1.4.5.1.1. Con: Thats not true, by far the biggest part of total oil usage is burned
1.4.5.2. Pro: For example, [the oil sold by Saudi Arabia funds the war in Yemen.](https://www.kialo.com/shell-should-be-boycotted-for-funding-genocide-in-yemen-7239/7239.0=7239.1+7239.9)
1.5. For functional reasons
1.5.1. Con: batteries are very heavy, the battery in the Tesla weighs as much as a small car
1.5.1.1. Con: A surge in popularity would make the technology advance fast making it a problem of "the first models". Old cars had to be cranked.
1.5.1.1.1. Con: There is already enough interest in advanced batteries that research into this field is limited by technical and scientific possibilities, rather than lack of motivation or budget.

There is no evidence that surge in popularity of electric cars would necessarily lead to a breakthrough in battery technology.
1.5.1.1.1.1. Con: Battery specs \(price, energy density, durability, ...\) is still improving every year. Ofcourse it is limited by current knowledge, that's why it needs more motivation and budget to continue research.
1.5.1.2. Con: Weight alone is not only a downside. Better handling due to lower center of gravity, more grip in wet or snowy conditions can make a positive safety difference. It does require bigger brakes \(but which are less frequently used as the motor uses regenerative braking\) and wider tires.
1.5.2. Pro: EVs allow drivers energy independence: home-owners and multi-unit co-operatives can generate their own fuel by producing electricity with solar panels, wind turbines, run-of-river hydro, etc.
1.5.3. Con: Many 3rd world countries do not have the necessary infrastructure to put up charging stations for these vehicles although gasoline and other fuels can easily be made available in small cans and even empty pepsi bottles. In such a case having an EV in such a country is more of a headache than a boon even for someone with access to electricity in cities but not in smaller towns and countryside
1.5.3.1. Con: A charging station doesn't necessarily need infrastructure. Solar panels and batteries are enough to be ready to charge an EV.
1.5.3.2. Pro: The investment required to buy solar panels and batteries is a lot bigger than investing in a few cans of gasoline as is currently done by some people in 3th world countries
1.5.3.2.1. Con: This claim is a false economy as solar generation can potentially provide for 40+ years of energy whereas the same value of fuel would be measured in months.
1.5.3.3. Con: The 3rd world also lacks robust power infrastructure, however as they build that they are likely to skip the hydrocarbon systems that 1st world regions are now burdened with.  Micro-Grids driven by renewable sources are likely to be more available in 3rd world regions.  BEVs can add enormous value to such micro-grid resources as storage devices and also energy transportation devices.  But such communities will need robust basic resources before they need any kind of new vehicle investments.
1.5.4. Pro: EV fleets can provide energy storage and keep renewable sources online in places like California where solar and wind might otherwise be curtailed due to oversupply leading to negative energy prices.
1.5.5. Con: Fossil fuel vehicles have a much longer range than EVs
1.5.5.1. Con: With super fast charging stations that can refill your energy bank in a few minutes, you can extend you range just as much as a fosil fuel car can. True the energy reserves are greater in a fosil fuel car but it is a fair tradeoff considering most EV car owner still own a fosil fuel car for the longer ranges and use the EV for short range activities.
1.5.5.2. Con: Many EVs are just as capable as the fossil fuel cars for long trips. For example, Tesla's supercharger network. Plugin hybrid EVs use both electricity and gasoline, and thus a second car would not be needed.
1.5.5.3. Con: EVs that are capable of 230 miles or more can easily do long distance travel equivalent to fossil fuel cars.
1.5.5.4. Con: There is now several EVs with a range of more then 300km.
1.5.5.5. Con: An EV can be recharged at every break that a driver needs during longer trips.
1.5.5.5.1. Con: There is not a sufficient network of chargers for that and it would be extremely costly to build one that would support as many cars as we have today.
1.5.5.5.1.1. Con: The Tesla supercharger network for example is already sufficient in many areas. There is no reason why this can't be done in the rest of the world or by other companies.
1.5.5.6. Con: For shorter daily travelling an EV never have to be recharged/refuelled as it’s always fully charged at home over night, a fossil car is not.
1.5.5.7. Con: Not only do EVs currently have ranges comparable to fossil fuel cars, but battery technology is advancing rapidly. It won't be long before EVs have a single-charge range that exceeds anything a gasoline engine can do \([electrek.co](https://electrek.co/2017/11/27/bmw-invest-electric-car-range-new-battery-cell-center/), [technologyreview.com](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/609027/this-startup-developed-a-promising-new-battery-material-and-a-novel-survival-strategy/)\), and that can be fully recharged in times comparable to, or better than, that of refueling a gas vehicle \([pocket-lint.com](https://www.pocket-lint.com/gadgets/news/130380-future-batteries-coming-soon-charge-in-seconds-last-months-and-power-over-the-air)\).

This claim \(that EVs have limited range\) is one that has been valid in EVs' infancy, but that is at its end.
1.5.5.8. Con: Most current EVs have small battery packs, much smaller than would fit in the chassis, because batteries are expensive. But the new Tesla Roadster with its 600 mile range proves that batteries can supply a more than adequate range once their price comes down. Despite the much lower energy density of batteries compared to fossil fuels on paper, the 6x efficiency advantage of electric motors vs ICE evens that out considerably. A 1,000 mile range for a modern day EV is entirely feasible, if costly.
1.5.5.9. Con: Most people only drive 50 miles a day so limited range is not a problem.[voltstats.net](https://www.voltstats.net/)
1.5.5.10. Pro: Since the charging stations are not as wide spread as gas stations, sometimes you have to make major detours to get to one. This causes delays and complications especially if you do a long distance drive.
1.5.5.10.1. Con: While true today, charging stations are becoming quickly more spread out as the requirement is being connected to the electric grid, which is far simpler than building a new gas pump.
1.5.5.10.2. Con: Long distance drives already have to be planned in advance - using tools such as [Open Charge Map](http://openchargemap.org/), charging stations can easily be taken into account.
1.5.5.11. Pro: It takes a lot of time to charge the batteries - around 30-40min. for 80% of the capacity. If you travel on a long trip and have to do 30-40min stops every time, it slows you down. I want my refuel stops quick - 5-10min.
1.5.5.11.1. Con: For long trips, EV drivers would already be stopping to rest, eat and use facilities. If the journey is planned so that these stops coincide with charging events, then the refuel time is mitigated.
1.5.5.11.2. Con: If you calculate the time spent at gas stations over the course of a year, versus an EV owner who does 99% of their annual charging at home at night, you may find that pumping gasoline actually consumes more of your time.
1.5.5.12. Pro: If you want to go on a long distance journey you don't want to have to get another car to do it.
1.5.5.12.1. Con: Buying or renting another car is unnecessary. Simply plan your long journey to pass by public charging stations using free tools like [Open Charge Map](http://openchargemap.org/).
1.5.5.13. Pro: Currently \(2017\) all fossil fuel cars available have longer range than all EVs.
1.5.5.13.1. Con: The number of times an average user needs to use the full range of the gas car in one go is extremely limited as most people travel much less than what their car can do. Charging at home overnight is cheaper and allows the car to have a full charge every morning with no time spent at the charging station.
1.5.5.14. Pro: Fossil fuels have significantly greater specific energy and energy density than batteries, thus making them a more efficient means of storing energy.
1.5.5.14.1. Con: Storing more energy doesn't nett you much more benefit as the conversion of that energy is only 35% efficient compared to electricity which converts at around 80% efficiency.
1.5.5.14.2. Con: Fossil fuel energy storage technology doesn't advance like electric energy storage technology. in fact a new type of reaction \(lithium oxygen\) has already been discovered to have pretty much the same, if not more, energy storage density capability as gas, and is being researched and developed at the moment. so we might have it in our batteries some day.
1.5.5.14.3. Con: You're using the word "efficiency" to mean energy density. Those are two different things. Fossil fuels are energy dense, but most of that energy is wasted as heat, making them very inefficient except in cold climates where the waste heat can be used to warm the cabin.
1.5.5.15. Con: We used to have 1 mega-pixel digital cameras and now we have 20 MPs. It seems reasonable that in the future we could have 1,000 mile ranges on EVs.
1.5.5.16. Con: Range is only relevant to the distance you travel on a typical day because an EV can be charged at home every night with no effort at all. When you head off in your EV in the morning, you typically have in excess of 200 miles of available range, more than enough for most daily commutes.
1.5.5.16.1. Con: It's wrong to claim that only typical use is relevant. When considering what type of car is best for them, each individual evaluates ALL types of use that they want the car for, not just one type of use.
1.5.5.16.2. Con: It's misleading to consider only daily commutes. Some people don't use their car for commutes at all, for example people who go to work using public transport, and only use their car for leisure purposes, such as visiting far-away relatives. Many people have different patterns of car use besides commuting.
1.5.5.16.3. Con: It's factually wrong to claim that EVs "typically" have a range of 200 miles \(320km\). As of January 2018, hardly any of the EVs on the market have that long a range. Buy a Nissan, Kia, BMW, VW, Hyundai, or Renault and none of them can offer that much range even when fully charged and in warm climates.
1.5.5.16.3.1. Con: The top 3 sold pure EV's in the US in 2017 \(Tesla S, Chevrolet Bolt and Tesla X\) all have in excess of 200 miles of range.
Number 4 \(Nissan Leaf\) has 150 miles of range and will get a new update to more then 200 miles this year.
Currently the Tesla 3 also started to sell in bigger amounts.

In Europe the Renault Zoe is the best sold pure EV and one of the trims has more then 200 miles range.
1.5.5.17. Con: Tesla already offers EV's with a range of over 300 miles. The upcoming Tesla Roadster has a range of 620 miles.[tesla.com](https://www.tesla.com/roadster)
1.5.6. Con: It is easier, faster and more convenient to refuel a fossil fuel vehicle.
1.5.6.1. Con: Electric cars might be powered by solar panels in the future. This results in recharging while driving.
1.5.6.1.1. Con: The extra range that could be provided by even the most efficient flat solar panels today \(2018\) would not provide much extra range.
1.5.6.2. Con: The ease that you refer to is owing to a 100 yrs of head start that the fossil fuel vehicles have over EVs in becoming mainstream. In 1900s one was supposed to get petrol from bulk stations and pour it by hand from the can into the automobile. Over the coming few years this "ease factor" will become completely irrelevant.
1.5.6.3. Con: A variety of charging options are being installed in most countries, ranging from rapid chargers on main highways, top up chargers at supermarkets, and day chargers at places where people work.
1.5.6.4. Con: Electrical power outlets are more ubiquitous than gasoline fueling stations. [Mobile chargers.](https://www.tesla.com/models-charging/modelx/design)
1.5.6.4.1. Con: Unfortunately a standard outlet will charge at about 3mph. So okay for adding a small amount of charge overnight or in an emergency but not for rapid charging.
1.5.6.5. Con: Most EV owners charge at home over night and so never have to go out of their way to refuel.
1.5.6.5.1. Pro: You cannot do this with combustion cars. You necessarily have to go to a supplier of fuel. Electric charging can be more ubiquitous and convenient
1.5.6.6. Con: Typically, EVs charge while you are doing something else; sleeping, working, shopping, eating.
1.5.6.7. Con: With induction charging as an after market option on EVs it can be as easy as never thinking about charging at all. Just go about your life without paying any attention to the battery at all until you go on a long distance trip.
1.5.6.8. Con: Refuelling an EV is more convenient than refuelling a fossil fuel car.
1.5.6.8.1. Pro: Most refueling of an EV will occur at home. There is no need to visit a fast charging station except on longer trips.
1.5.6.8.2. Pro: Tesla's navigation system actually plans your charging stops for you while on a trip, navigating you to the next Supercharger station on your journey and informing you in advance of how long you will need to stop at each one.
1.5.6.9. Pro: All the EV charging networks are "on their way" but not ready yet. Fossil fuel charging networks are well established and reliable.
1.5.6.9.1. Con: True but this comparing 100 year-old industry with a 5 year-old one. The pace of electric charging infrastructure far outraces that of new gas stations and the complexity of implementing a new charging station is very low as electrical components are very well understood very easy to find and not complicated to install.
1.5.6.9.2. Con: No, not all. It depends whether you live in an advanced state. In Oregon for example there are charging points everywhere, including fast chargers every 60 miles up and down the west coast "electric highway".
1.5.6.10. Pro: It takes a long time to charge an electric car
1.5.6.10.1. Con: Most of the time the EV is ready before you are becouse you can do other thing when the car is charging. For example lunch or coffee, work or sleep. With a fossil you have to stand wait for the refuel. So you will actually loose less time with an EV than an ICE.
1.5.6.10.2. Con: Doesn’t matter if the car is charged when it’s not used.
1.5.6.10.3. Con: When driving on long trips you should always take a break every 2 hours or so, when you do the car can be recharged.
1.5.6.10.4. Pro: At some point on a long journey you have to charge the car for along time. If you have two drivers you can't get straight back on the road. With a fossil fuel car and two drivers you can go along way with only very minimal stops. You can't do that with an EV.
1.5.6.11. Pro: Not everyone has infrastructure or space at home to be able to charge.
1.5.6.11.1. Con: If there is electricity at home, there is the infrastructure to charge. Nothing more fancy than a dryer outlet is required. It is more complicated for people living in rented apartments and/or parking on the street.
1.5.6.12. Pro: Refueling is not convenient during long road trips, or when many errands need to be run across town on the same day. A 24kWh EV can quickly run out of charge, especially on weekends when charging spots are already in use by other cars.
1.5.6.12.1. Con: This is not true if you consider that in 2017 the Chevy Bolt was the first 'traditional' manufacturer to offer a 60kWh battery.  Since Tesla began in 2012 with a minimum 60 kWh battery in the Model S \(which was least popular\), and that they have the most cars on the road as market leader, with future 200kWh.  We should consider that as the minimum bar for all 'honestly' modern BEVs.  The GM EV1 through the Nissan Leaf are all comparable to early ICE vehicles pre 1950s such as thr Ford Model-T.
1.5.6.12.2. Con: This claim is true for smaller battery EVs that have been affordable up to 2017. But going forward nearly all EVs are being sold with around 40KWh batteries or above, yielding around 150 to 200 real world mileage which is plenty for nearly all local use cases.
1.5.6.13. Pro: Fuel is more easily transportable to a stranded or remote vehicle. An EV requires a generator or connection to the grid.
1.5.6.13.1. Con: Electricity is already at most places. There is no need to wait until the battery is depleted to charge as most people du with gas cars because refuelling is actually a waste of time, thus doing it as infrequently as possible makes sense. Slow Charging whenever parked takes seconds to activate and will reduce the need to fast charge.
1.5.6.13.2. Pro: I think this is a business opportunity for anyone willing to set up a tethered type of "towing" service or portable battery truck that could come give a quick road side charge.
1.5.6.13.2.1. Pro: It would actually be relatively trivial for every BEV to be capable of Quick Charging any other BEV.  We have had such hardware for over 20 years in the DIY BEV Community and often "Dump Charge" at the race track from a support vehicle.  This is not available because it would rarely be needed.  If available I would personally pay the ~$1000~2000 Premium to add this feature to my BEV.  I will probably add this feature myself within the next few years.
1.5.6.13.2.2. Con: This road side battery charge might not be needed except on the rarest of occasions.
1.5.6.13.2.2.1. Pro: BEVs don't stop suddenly when run empty. Power reduces gradually and is often software limited to allow "limp home" to the nearest charging station.
1.5.6.14. Pro: EVs do not yet have hot-swappable batteries, where batteries can be changed at charging stations.
1.5.6.14.1. Pro: Tesla has actually demonstrated battery swapping and it is much faster than pumping gas into an ICE vehicle.
1.5.6.15. Pro: Refuelling a fossil fuel car is faster than charging an EV.
1.5.6.15.1. Con: Future batteries may be filled in the same manner. [purdue.edu](https://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2017/Q2/instantly-rechargeable-battery-could-change-the-future-of-electric-and-hybrid-automobiles.html)
1.5.6.15.2. Con: Soon, solid-state batteries could provide 500 miles of range after charging for one minute. [engadget.com](http://engadget.com)
1.5.6.15.2.1. Con: 500 miles in 1 minute is marketing spin. EVs that are efficient need about 200wh/mile. So for every 5 miles they need 1KWh. So for 500 miles they will need 100KWh of electricity. To charge that much in 1 hour you'd need 100KW supply to do that in 1 minute you'd need 6000KW supply. 6MW! You'd need a very fat cable to take that kind of supply and everything would be very hot, and you'd need special grid arrangement to do it. This isn't something that will happen anytime soon.
1.5.6.15.2.1.1. Con: Capacitors do this exact thing in theory and practice. You're correct about heat and resistance, but superconductors, on par with solid state batteries, would remedy the limitations therein.
1.5.6.15.3. Con: Systems where the empty battery is switched for a full one can palliate this issue
1.5.6.15.4. Con: In most circumstances EV owners never have to wait for their car to charge \(i.e. they are charging while the owner does other things\).
1.5.6.15.4.1. Pro: EV owners don't spend any time waiting for their car to charge if it charges overnight.
1.5.6.15.4.2. Pro: EV owners don't spend any time waiting for their car to charge if it charges while they are at work.
1.5.6.15.4.3. Pro: EV owners don't spend any time waiting for their car to charge if it charges while they are shopping.
1.5.6.15.4.4. Pro: EV owners don't spend any time waiting for their car to charge if it charges at the railway station when they take the train to work.
1.5.6.15.4.5. Con: People who don't have access to charging while they are sleeping, working or shopping may have to wait for their car to charge.
1.5.6.15.5. Con: On a long distance journey after driving for 2 hours it is recommended to take a break. A EV driver charges their car and takes a break at the same time. A fossil fuel car will need to fill their tank and then take a break \(i.e. the fossil fuel car can take longer\).
1.5.6.15.5.1. Pro: An EV would refuel in much the same way a fossil fuel vehicle refuels. Furthermore, [recommended ergonomic breaks](http://drivingergonomics.lboro.ac.uk/faq.html) can occur concurrently with refueling, rendering moot any relevance they have with refueling timeframes.
1.5.6.15.5.2. Con: Recommended is not the same as mandatory. Until we have improvements in battery technology, charging could be a significant inconvenience on a long distance journey.
1.5.6.15.6. Con: Yes, but unlike a fossil fuel powered car, you can charge up your EV at home, every night. Just like your smartphone. This is much less drama than being forced to drive out of your way to refuel.
1.5.6.15.6.1. Con: While on long trips, oftentimes refueling must occur more frequently than once per day, thus greatly increasing the "drama" of refueling.
1.5.6.15.6.2. Con: Many people live  areas with no access to the grid overnight, particularly in cities, where there is a greater pollution problem.
1.5.6.16. Pro: EV charging infrastructure does not support carefree motoring, where as the fossil fuel supply network is mature and ubiquitous.
1.5.6.16.1. Con: In rural areas, lack of gasoline availability can impede carefree motoring just as easily. In many of these places, RV parks have available power to charge electric vehicles.
1.5.6.16.2. Con: The Tesla Supercharger and Destination Charger network proves that carefree motoring is possible. Long road trips are easy and simple to do with no pre-planning. Once other charger networks get up to the same standard all EVs will have carefree motoring.
1.5.6.16.2.1. Con: This is proprietary technology and does not indicate the state of the industry.
1.5.6.16.3. Pro: Fossil fuels are readily available pretty much anywhere you go. Drivers don't need to plan their journey to take into account where they will re-fuel as much as you do with an EV. With an EV you have to plan in advance where you might charge.
1.5.6.16.3.1. Con: Most modern electric vehicles incorporate assistance in the form of navigation to the nearest available charging station. This mitigates range anxiety, and is an improvement over petrol vehicles which don't usually incorporate this level of guidance.
1.5.6.16.3.2. Con: There are a number of natural gas models of vehicles. As natural gas is a fossil fuel and as that infrastructure is also woefully immature some drivers of fossil fueled cars do indeed have to plan their trips around when they might refill.
1.5.6.16.4. Pro: When filling up with fossil fuel you can just pay by credit card. With EVs you need a variety of apps and RFID cards that you have to prepare in advance in order to be able to charge.
1.5.6.16.5. Pro: Fossil fuel cars have far greater range than EVs so you don't have to fill up so often, making the driving experience much more carefree.
1.5.6.16.6. Con: Carefree driving is exactly what EVs provide. You never have to look for a gas station again or worry about running out of gas ever again. A driver simply goes about their day, to and from home and around the city. vacations once or twice a year might be the only time an EV driver ever has to think about refilling a battery.
1.5.6.16.7. Con: The UK has 8400 Fuel Stations and 7300 EV Charging Points; the infrastructure is there already and it's growing daily. Surely, this means we have reached the critical mass, infrastructure-wise. 
[Statista: UK fuel stations, 2016](https://www.statista.com/statistics/312331/number-of-petrol-stations-in-the-united-kingdom-uk/)
1.5.6.16.7.1. Con: The number of stations / points isn't the key factor.It is about the availability of charging \(particularly rapid charging for long distance\) that is limiting EV use.
1.5.6.16.7.2. Con: 8400 fuel stations with 4 to 12 pumps each that have a higher throughput than the EV charge points \(many of which are slow chargers\)
1.5.6.17. Con: Fuel manipulation is dangerous and thus it is difficult to obtain a license to dispense fuel, and a lot of restrictions concerning location are in place. Electric charging is safer and can be installed by anyone anywhere. When this market matures electric charging will be actually more convenient than fuel.
1.5.6.18. Con: EV owners do 99% of their daily charging in their own garage at night when they're asleep. They don't have to search for gas stations or stand next to a gas pump in the bitter cold. Every morning when they get into their car, they have a "full tank" awaiting them.
1.5.6.19. Con: It is unnecessary to stay with an EV while it is charging. Tesla makes of point of locating its Supercharger stations near food and shopping. When a Supercharger is 10 minutes from completion, the car sends a text to the driver's cell phone to alert them.
1.5.7. Con: Fossil fuel cars are generally less internet connected than EVs so they are more secure against hacking
1.5.7.1. Con: Traditionally all cars have a CAN bus as an interface to the cars computers. This bus is per se extremely insecure. It is for example possible to access a BMWs main computer through the turn signal lights, which BMW thought needed to be connected to the CAN bus.
1.5.7.2. Con: Nearly all currently-produced fossil fuel vehicles are also drive-by-wire, and possess the same vulnerabilities to hacking.
1.5.7.3. Pro: All current electric vehicles are drive-by-wire, which presents a vulnerability to hacking that must be mitigated by software. Many fossil fuel vehicles still in use today have no such vulnerability
1.5.7.3.1. Con: While many fossil fuel vehicles are not susceptible to remote control attacks, there is established precedent for such attacks. Regardless of EV or fossil fuel, this vulnerability will affect an ever-growing number of vehicles in the future.[Jeep Hackers 2.0](https://goo.gl/MNfQkW)
1.5.7.3.2. Con: Most modern cars, electric or not, are drive by wire and internet connected, thus susceptible to hacking. This is important to address but in no means exclusive to electric cars.
1.5.7.4. Con: Not all electric cars are autonomous nor does the notion of "electric cars" imply an on-board CPU or even network connectivity - the latter of which would be required for a remote attack.
1.5.7.5. Pro: Electric vehicles possess significant security vulnerabilities.
1.5.7.5.1. Con: This is not a problem unique to EVs, since all recent car models have onboard integrated computers. Susceptibility to digital attacks has already been demonstrated on fossil fuel vehicles, as far back as 2015. [Jeep Hackers 2.0](https://goo.gl/MNfQkW)
1.5.7.6. Con: Electric vehicles and fossil fuel vehicles are both susceptible to being hacked into they both have keyless starters and computers and etc. Electric Vehicles don't necessarily mean that it is connected to the internet more than fossil fuel cars in anyway. Both are advancing in ways that include computers and keyless starters and etc.
1.5.7.7. Con: In Tesla's vehicles, critical driving functions cannot be accessed through the car's internet connection. The car's wiring will not permit it.
1.5.7.8. Con: This is independent of whether the car runs on electricity or gas.  Rather, electric cars are new, and new cars tend to have more internet connectedness than old cars.
1.5.8. Pro: EVs are better than fossil fuel cars because they are better in an emergency \(for example natural disasters requiring evacuation\)
1.5.8.1. Pro: Recent experience shows that fossil fuel cars have problems in a mass evacuation situation. Fuel shortages at filling stations and problems with resupply mean fossil fuel cars are no better than EVs.
1.5.8.2. Pro: In a congestion situation, such as an evacuation, EVs tend to use a lot less energy per mile than fossil fuel cars. Going slow increases the EV range while it decreases the fossil fuel car range.
1.5.8.3. Pro: In the most recent Florida evacuation, fossil fuels ran out before electricity was lost. In some areas, electricity stayed on during the storm and after. DC fast charging enables such evacuations easier than with fossil fuel cars during panic buying of fossil fuels.
1.5.8.4. Con: When it is necessary to evacuate a State due to a hurricane, many people must drive 250 miles or more. Electric vehicles would not allow for thousands of people to leave an area at the same time in an emergency situation.
1.5.8.5. Con: An electric vehicle is far more likely to experience severe malfunction in the event of a directed or nuclear EMP.
1.5.8.5.1. Pro: Most current fossil fuel vehicles would experience [moderate to little](https://oversight.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/Baker-Statement-5-13-EMP.pdf) interference in the event of an nuclear EMP.
1.5.8.5.1.1. Con: I fail to see evidence that electric car should be more sensitive to this kind of disturbance. In case this is a real issue - all vehicles should be tested and verified to same standard
1.5.8.5.2. Pro: While directed-EMP devices [on the market](http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25197786) today are used to disable fossil fuel vehicles, the impact on an entirely electric vehicle would be far more catastrophic, most likely involving professional maintenance.
1.5.8.5.2.1. Con: Equally catastrophic. Neither type of vehicle can operate after an EMP.
1.5.8.5.3. Con: Non-electric cars still have electrical components just as vulnerable as an EV's components. There aren't any consumer-grade cars available today that are nuclear EMP proof.
1.5.8.5.4. Con: This is a very minor concern for the majority of car owners.
1.5.8.5.5. Con: modern petrol vehicles run based on computers which would also fail in the same situation.
1.5.8.5.6. Con: EMP from a nuke would also fry non computer electronics such as alternator.
1.5.8.5.7. Con: If someone sets off a nuclear EMP car troubles will not be the biggest issue. If your seriously concerned about this issue then we need to take a look at changing the entire human infrastructure..
1.5.9. Pro: EVs are more fuel efficient than fossil fuel vehicles.
1.5.9.1. Pro: An EV's efficiency comes from the fact that AC Induction motors are around 90% efficient, whereas internal combustion engines are about 30% efficient, losing 70% in the form of heat.
1.5.10. Pro: EVs are better to drive than fossil fuel vehicles
1.5.10.1. Pro: EV provides instantaneous torque
1.5.10.2. Pro: Have you driven an EV? I was skeptical before I got behind the wheel. They're amazingly responsive, and a lot of fun. Traditional internal combustion engines can't compare in terms of torque, especially at low speeds.
1.5.10.3. Pro: EVs typically have more available internal space as their motors are comparatively smaller.
1.5.10.3.1. Pro: Essential EV components consist of a motor and battery, where as a ICE automobile requires a larger engine, gas tank, and a host of supporting systems \(battery, oil tank, radiator, etc\).
1.5.10.3.2. Pro: An EV battery is relatively flat and can be placed at the bottom of automobile - thus freeing up cabin and trunk space.
1.5.10.4. Pro: Single pedal driving is more relaxing than the fossil fuel car alternative.
1.5.10.4.1. Pro: It’s also safer as braking starts the second you raise your foot and not only when you reach the brake, saving precious fractions of seconds.
1.5.10.5. Pro: EVs have smooth acceleration as the motor delivers constant torque all the way up to top speed.
1.5.10.6. Pro: EVs have better acceleration than fossil fuel cars
1.5.10.6.1. Con: 'Some' EVs have better acceleration than 'some' fossil fuelled cars, but equally, the also the opposite is true. There are hundreds of petrol/diesel powered cars that are faster than a Renault Zoe 0-100kph/0-62mph
1.5.10.6.2. Pro: Currently, as a prototype, the fastest accelerating vehicle, the second-generation Tesla Roadster, is an EV that can accelerate from 0 to 60 in 1.9 seconds. That time could actually decrease in the production model. [theguardian.com](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2017/nov/17/tesla-roadster-electric-supercar-elon-musk-fast)
1.5.10.7. Pro: EVs are virtually silent so you can hear music and conversations better in the car
1.5.10.7.1. Con: Most noise while driving is due to aerodynamic vibrations and tire noise, which is present in EV and FFV.
1.5.10.8. Pro: Filling a fossil fuel car with petrol or diesel is a smelly, unpleasant business, often leaving you with diesel on the soles of your shoes from other people's spills which then stinks out your car for the rest of the journey. EV charging is clean.
1.5.10.8.1. Con: Some people actually enjoy the smell of fuel vapours
1.5.10.9. Pro: Instant acceleration of EVs is a massive improvement on the lag of \(often\) several seconds that you get with fossil fuel cars.
1.5.10.10. Pro: EVs make much less noise than regular cars
1.5.10.10.1. Con: The sound of a V8 fossil fuel engine speaks to the soul
1.5.10.10.1.1. Con: For most people the sound is both disturbing and annoying and is something we won't miss at all once it is gone from our lives.
1.5.10.10.1.2. Con: Gasoline motors are accompanied by a broad social infrastructure dedicated to amplifying the noise they make \(sacrificing efficiency in the process\) in order to disturb the peace.
1.5.10.10.2. Pro: The noise level is a matter of taste. Some drivers prefer the noise. Others do not.
1.5.10.10.2.1. Con: Some residents prefer extremely loud music until 2 in the morning. However, this exacts negative externalities upon others.
1.5.10.11. Pro: An EV is quicker then comparable fossil-car.
1.5.10.12. Pro: There are electric cars with a much more developed technology than fossil fuel cars. A good example of this are Tesla brand cars.
1.5.10.13. Con: Fossil fuel cars have higher top speed than electric cars.
1.5.10.13.1. Con: A Tesla Model S with Ludicrous Mode can reach 155 MPH [electrek.co](https://electrek.co/2016/03/23/tesla-model-s-p90d-ludicrous-top-speed-acceleration/), and the limit is due to the one speed transmission. With a differently wound motor or a second gear, there is no reason an EV could not go significantly faster.
1.5.10.13.2. Con: The upcoming Tesla Roadster has a top speed of over 250 mph.[tesla.com](https://www.tesla.com/roadster)
1.5.10.14. Con: Many people enjoy the sense of control that comes from driving a geared transmission.
1.5.10.14.1. Pro: Many also find manual transmissions fun.
1.5.10.14.2. Con: Gears are a compromise to enable an engine to provide an appropriate level of torque at different speeds. There is far more control in an EV where there is instant torque at all speeds.
1.5.10.15. Con: Although the electric motor provides a more instant feeling of power, for many the driving experience comes from more than just that. The sound of an accelerating engine, pops and crackles from an exhaust can both add to the excitement and drama of driving a sporty car. Furthermore as someone who enjoys classic "hot hatchbacks" I prefer the simpler interior, rather than a car bestowed with unwanted gadgets as some electric cars have.
1.5.10.15.1. Con: People also enjoyed the sound of a horse's hooves on the pavement. You have to experience the linear torque of an EV to appreciate why it is such a big step forward. Tesla has absolutely perfected its EV powertrain. I'm speaking as a former Ferrari owner who enjoyed shifting manually. If you like simple clean interiors, be sure to look inside a Tesla.
1.5.10.16. Con: The added weight of the batteries often decrease handling \(cornering and braking\) performance.
1.5.10.16.1. Con: An EV's low center of gravity results in better handling, better traction in snow, and a more confident feel on the road.
1.5.11. Pro: EVs are safer for the occupants, other road users and pedestrians.
1.5.11.1. Pro: Because of limited range people driving EVs tend to adopt slower pace and more careful driving which will automatically reduce accidents both for the cars and their drivers.
1.5.11.2. Pro: During an impact an EV does not have an engine block that can be forced into the passenger compartment which is safer for the occupants of the car. Typically most EVs have fewer components under the hood so have better, less compromised crumple zones.
1.5.11.2.1. Con: EVs are also significantly heavier, making any impact at identical speed more severe. Safe driving is the key.
1.5.11.3. Pro: Less risk of roll over due to low center of gravity created by the battery.
1.5.11.4. Pro: Fossil fuel car fires are so common they are not reported on. EV fires do happen but in percentage terms of the EVs on the road there are significantly fewer fires than fossil fuel cars.
1.5.11.5. Pro: When fossil fuel cars crash a percentage of them suffer ruptured fuel tanks spilling fuel around the accident site making it hazardous for first responders to approach.
1.5.11.5.1. Con: First responder protocols for managing fuel spills are well established.
1.5.11.5.2. Con: The amount of gasoline in a fossil fuel car is a limited quantity up to but not exceeding the volume of the gas tank. It can burn off or be removed. An EV must be watched for up to 24hrs after a crash since the battery may suffer thermal runaway.
1.5.11.5.2.1. Con: Fossil fuels burning more quickly and therefor saving time doesn't make them safer.
1.5.11.6. Pro: Innovations in crash avoidance are already leading to increased road safety. [Tesla radar predicts accidents before they happen](https://qz.com/873263/watch-teslas-radar-tsla-predicts-a-collision-and-starts-braking-seconds-before-it-happens/)
1.5.11.6.1. Con: Collision awareness is not limited to EVs. See work done by IBEO and similar companies.
1.5.11.7. Pro: The need to recharge EVs after about 2 hours driving increases safety by preventing people from driving longer than it is safe for them to drive. Drowsy driving has been shown to be as bad as drunk driving.
1.5.11.8. Con: Damaged lithium batteries are prone to thermal runaway, requiring first responders to bring and use large quantities of water at accident scenes involving an EV.
1.5.11.9. Con: EVs may become electrified during and after a collision becoming a hazard to occupants and first responders.
1.5.11.9.1. Con: That is not true. A damaged BEV will not become "electrified", they have fuses and electricity always takes the shortest path with will not be through an occupant.
1.5.11.9.2. Con: Compare this with the potential of gasoline cars to erupt in a fiery explosion.
1.5.11.9.2.1. Con: Firefighters will often let the fuel burn off in a controlled burn. The amount of fuel is finite. Compared to a damaged lithium battery which must be watched for up to 24 hours for thermal runaway and leakage long term.
1.5.11.10. Con: As the number of EV models increase, first responders are finding it difficult to identify EVs that have been in a collision and require different handling due to battery damage potential.
1.5.11.10.1. Pro: Most European and North American fire fighting brigades are volunteer with high turnover rates. It is difficult to keep up the level of training required by EV collisions.[20min.ch](http://www.20min.ch/finance/news/story/24339403)
1.5.11.10.2. Con: This appears to support the case against new kinds of vehicles as well as it supports the case against introducing automobiles altogether. The difficulty stated here is covered by as much as 5 minutes' training. Someone who is willing to become a first responder that is capable of first aid and CPR, will not likely be hindered by this difficulty.
1.5.11.10.2.1. Con: The training for handling battery fires is longer than 5 minutes since the use of large lithium batteries in passenger vehicles is a new phenomenon. Using water as recommended by EV manufacturers is dangerous. Training costs time and money, even in volunteer  fire brigades.
1.5.11.10.2.2. Con: Guide books are supplied with the car or online but this is not practical during emergencies when time is critical. [firerescue1.com](https://www.firerescue1.com/fire-products/Extrication-Tools-Cutters-and-Spreaders/articles/1368387-Hybrid-vehicle-extrication-made-simple/)
1.5.11.10.3. Pro: "The level of knowledge about new vehicle technology varied between departments. For the municipal officers, environmental aspects are of most interest, whereas safety and rescue operations involving EVs are rarely addressed. The responsibility for disseminating information about the safe handling of EVs was unclear."[link.springer.com](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12544-017-0240-1)
1.5.11.10.4. Pro: First responders need access to tools and specific knowledge for a variety of models, to disconnect the electronics because that is the firth swap when dealing with an EV in a collision."The first step in a successful extrication is having the proper tools at the ready. There's no time to be running back to the truck for this tool or that tool. Here's the equipment you'll need on every hybrid vehicle extrication."[firerescue1.com](https://www.firerescue1.com/fire-products/Extrication-Tools-Cutters-and-Spreaders/articles/1368387-Hybrid-vehicle-extrication-made-simple/)
1.5.11.11. Con: Damaged battery packs may leak putting people at risk through chemical burns. [electrocuted.com](http://www.electrocuted.com/2016/11/28/electrocution-hazards-electric-cars/)
1.5.11.12. Con: EV charging stations are subject to vandalism, copper theft and neglect. User are at risk of electrocution.  [electrocuted.com](http://www.electrocuted.com/2016/11/28/electrocution-hazards-electric-cars/)
1.5.11.12.1. Con: Gas stations are just as likely subjected to theft and robbery and explosive/incendiary hazard is much more of a problem than electrocution is for electric charging stations.

Whereas gas stations allow exposure to flammable fuels \(literally thousands of litres\), electric connections found at charging stations are protected against short circuits and exposure to live wires.
1.5.11.12.2. Con: This seems a bit slanted towards helping out this law firm. A lot of electrocution theories have been debunked.[greentransportation.info](https://greentransportation.info/ev-charging/range-confidence/chap4-charging/4-charge-in-rain.html)
1.5.11.13. Con: EVs are more silent, especially at lower speeds, so pedestrians will be less alerted to the aproach of an EV than of a fossil fuel vehicle. [See wired.com article.](https://www.wired.com/2017/04/evs-dangerously-quiet-heres-sound-like/)
1.5.11.13.1. Con: All BEVs have low speed artificial sound output devices.
1.5.11.14. Con: Less noise means pedestrians and animals who are already used to take loudness of engines as danger warnings will be more prone to cross streets and get involved in accidents. Same example applies to bicycles.[truckinginfo.com](http://www.truckinginfo.com/news/story/2013/01/nhtsa-proposes-new-minimum-sound-requirements-for-hybrid-and-electric-vehicles.aspx)
1.5.11.14.1. Con: People and animals will get used to it. The reduction in noise and air pollution is a much better thing than making sure pedestrians hear a car approaching. You should look out when you cross a street...
1.5.11.14.2. Con: Bicycles have been around for 100 years or so it’s not that much of a problem. Only people who may have a problem are the blind or partially sighted.
1.5.11.14.2.1. Con: Impact of pedestrian an bicycle is very unlikely to be lethal where as any car even at low speed may cause more serious injuries.
1.5.11.14.3. Pro: EV don't make a lot of sound; cyclist can't hear them as well.
1.5.11.14.4. Con: Only true under 10km/h. Above that tires make enough noise to be distinguished from background noise. Slow speeds are also much easier to brake and the resulting impact, although not beneficial, is likely to be benign.
1.5.11.14.5. Con: Most EV models have warning sounds for pedestrians and animals at low speeds. At higher speeds, road noise is still significant.
1.5.11.14.6. Con: A federal Pedestrian Safety law was passed in 2010 regarding this very issue. Manufacturers of EV and Hybrid cars have until September 1, 2019 to equip new vehicles with noise-making devices. [govtrack.us](https://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/111/s841)
1.5.12. Pro: EVs are more reliable than fossil fuel cars
1.5.12.1. Pro: Otto and diesel engines take damage when thay not used gently while that are cold or stopped immediately after heavy usage.
1.5.12.2. Pro: EVs have fewer moving parts than fossil fuel cars so can go longer between services [carscoops.com](http://www.carscoops.com/2017/07/musk-says-tesla-model-3-can-travel.html)
1.5.12.3. Pro: EVs use regen braking so brake pads don't need to be replaced so often.
1.5.12.4. Con: EVs are much less reliable than a fossil fuel vehicle. For instance, there is no way to “revive” or make operatable, an EV in areas where there is no proper charging station. If an EV were to run out of charge in an area without electricity, the only possibility of leaving said area would be a tow from a tow truck. A fossil fuel vehicle can, on the other hand, be immediately refueled.
1.5.12.4.1. Con: EV owners always plan where they should and can get to. Just like you when you go out into the woods with you truck, you would plan the distance and bring additional fuel, EV owners do plan their trips.
1.5.12.4.2. Con: Fossil fuel vehicles can't be 'immediately refuelled' you have to get the fuel to the vehicle. This may not be so easy as finding a place to charge an EV. The nearest petrol station could be many miles away.
1.5.12.4.2.1. Con: Walking/hitchhiking a few miles to get gas can be done.  You cannot bring back a charge for your car, so you need a tow-truck.
1.5.12.4.3. Con: There are many instances of people getting low on charge with their EV and asking to plug into get some charge from someone's house. Electricity is everywhere and in an emergency easier to find than more fossil fuel.
1.5.12.4.3.1. Con: Although I agree that you can plug in in many places it isn't true that electricity is everywhere but I'm with you concerning the wide spread availability of electricity.
1.5.12.4.4. Con: Towing companies are now investing in generator trucks, which can give an EV enough energy to drive to a charging station.
1.5.13. Pro: EVs have less moving parts and require considerably less mechanical maintenance
1.5.13.1. Pro: Infact, gone is the need for bulky transmission \(motor is directly connected to wheels\). Electric motors are maintenance free, will work for ages.
1.5.13.2. Con: EV batteries are not easy to repair DIY
1.5.13.2.1. Con: Car batteries in general shouldn't be repaired DIY, they should be safely inspected and repaired by professionals. Your point actually advocates for the safety of EVs, as fewer accidents or breakages will occur from fewer attempted DIY repairs.
1.5.13.3. Pro: Fewer moving parts makes EVs easier to fabricate, maintain and more efficient \(less waste in transforming energy to movement\)
1.5.14. Pro: EVs are superior cars for winter driving.
1.5.14.1. Con: Batteries do not function as well in colder temperatures.
1.5.14.2. Pro: EVs can be preheated in the winter with no exhaust. Outside kindergartens, schools and grocery stores the air is sometimes bad when people leave their car running.
1.5.14.3. Con: EVs have shorter range in cold weather  \([blog.ucsusa.org](https://blog.ucsusa.org/dave-reichmuth/electric-cars-cold-weather-temperatures)\)
1.5.14.3.1. Con: Preheating an EV while it is still plugged in will reduce range loss caused by cabin and battery heating. [blog.ucsusa.org](https://blog.ucsusa.org/dave-reichmuth/electric-cars-cold-weather-temperatures)
1.5.14.4. Pro: EVs offer superior traction control on snow and ice because they utilize digital motor control instead of mechanical systems. The digital motor controller used by Tesla can vary motor torque up to 100 times per second.
1.5.14.4.1. Con: Internal combustion cars are capable of same control, using electronic throttle, and actuating brakes \(ABS/ESP systems\)
1.5.14.4.1.1. Con: Internal combustion engines have way slower reaction times than an electric motor. Also brakes are slower than an electric motor. This gives an EV the superior traction control over an ICE.
1.5.14.5. Pro: When charging an EV, it is unnecessary to stand in the wind and cold while charging.
1.5.14.5.1. Con: It is unnecessary to stand outside of a petroleum fueled car once the pump had been set up. Just like the charger for an EV
1.5.14.5.1.1. Con: This is not true in many parts of the world. For example in the UK and most of Europe you have to stand at the pump and hold the pump handle \(you can't switch it on and leave it\)
1.5.14.5.1.2. Con: At least in Europe I have never seen a car being fueled while being left alone. This sounds like a very bad practice and I would never do that.
1.5.14.6. Pro: An EV's low center of gravity gives it superior traction on snow.
1.5.15. Con: Batteries have a limited life; they do not hold up well over time.
1.5.15.1. Con: real data from existing Tesla Model S shows, that  battery live is quite good : [docs.google.com](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/t024bMoRiDPIDialGnuKPsg/edit#gid=490778289)
1.5.15.2. Pro: Modern electric car batteries have not been field-tested over decades in the way gas has. We don't yet know if current batteries will last 20 or 30 years, which is well within the lifespan of a gas car that suffers minimal loss in range.
1.5.15.3. Con: [Next-gen lithium batteries](https://newatlas.com/siliconx-lithium-battery-anode/55448/?utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=2018-07-14%20133415%20USA%20Weekly%20Basic%202018-07-14%20133831%20Automobili%20Pininfarina%20-%20the%20full%20story%20behind%20the%202000%20hp%20hypercar%20and%20the%20making%20of%20a%20new%20brand&utm_content=2018-07-14%20133415%20USA%20Weekly%20Basic%202018-07-14%20133831%20Automobili%20Pininfarina%20-%20the%20full%20story%20behind%20the%202000%20hp%20hypercar%20and%20the%20making%20of%20a%20new%20brand+CID_dc3421aab864cb9e08f1a709f29db520&utm_source=Campaign%20Monitor&utm_term=Read%20more) hold promise for long-term stability when engineered with silicon anodes and other materials.
1.5.15.4. Con: Correct. But gasoline also has limited life and limited quantity, which is not the case of electricity whenever harvested from solar and eventually wind.
1.5.15.5. Con: You may think that electric cars store electricity in batteries. This is not true for all electric cars. Future cars will use other solutions for electricity generation. Electric motor gives us the freedom. Battery limitations will not stop this show.
1.5.15.5.1. Pro: Hydrogen driven fuel cells can generate enough electricity for long range vehicles. The hidrogen storage issues hopefully will be solved soon.
1.5.15.5.1.1. Con: The biggest issue for hydrogen is not the storage, but the energy losses: first the conversion from electricity to hydrogen, then compressing the hydrogen to fit inside a car and then the conversion from hydrogen to electricity. This issue will only be solved when electricity becomes very cheap, otherwise batteries are better for short-term energy storage.
1.5.15.5.2. Pro: More and more solution will be developed as the market grows.
1.6. For other reasons
1.6.1. Con: Some materials like Nickel, Cobalt and Lithium used for battery production are very rare which imply larger mining sites to meet demand. Nickel mining is for example triggering severe health issues. A large scale exploitation of land and seabeds for these materials will contaminate and destroy nature at high rates. See "The guardian- Nickel mining: the hidden environmental cost of electric cars"
1.6.1.1. Con: Although I completely agree with your point about the upstream impacts of electric vehicles \(e.g. mining and related infrastructure\), I think it is key to consider two systemic frames when asking "what is better": mobility as a system, and the life-cycle costs of vehicles. For mobility as a whole to work sustainably, electric mobility is central \(smart mobility, AI\), and the life cycle analysis shows that, although you are correct \(mining is an issue\), the benefits still outweigh the drawbacks.
1.6.1.2. Con: Mining and Refinement of battery related materials can \(Should Always\) be done in safe controlled ways which can fully control for any harmful side effects.  At the end of their lives batteries raw materials can also be recycled in similarly responsible ways.  Conversely, it is impossible to sequester the CO2 released from the burning of hydrocarbon fuels so there is no possibility of making those ICE Vehicles clean.
1.6.1.3. Con: Minerals cannot be packed together to asses their ability to be mined as the methods vary widely. Lithium is abundant on earth \(33rd most abundant element\) and is relatively easy to refine from its brine form. Cobalt is problematic for geopolitical reasons and being used less in modern batteries. Nickel mining seems to be complex and polluting, but as demand continues to grow alongside with responsible mining, there’s good hope that it will improve as it’s done mostly in developed countries.
1.6.1.4. Con: Not necessarily. Mining must be formalized; and restrictions must be more demanding to companies. There is technology to do green mining all around the world, in any environment, but these technologies usually increases production, which impacts negatively on international prices of metals, because its prices increase with availability \(simple offer and demand\). In mining industry, scarcity drives profit.
1.6.2. Pro: The electric motor will accept any form of energy that can undergo conversion, making it extremely adaptable. It is therefore well suited to breaking down energy dependence and accelerating growth of diversified energy markets. As markets decentralize, so will centers of political power and the way they are financed. It makes corporate oligarchies and foreign exploitation easier to resist, contributing to global stability. An era of environmentalism can then have a better chance of succeeding.
1.6.3. Con: Petrol cars are more fun to drive. Sound, changing gears \(fun even in automatic!\), etc... You just can't get those in a EV car!
1.6.3.1. Pro: The pleasure obtained by driving a fossil fuel vehicle does not justify the environmental impact and loud noise that is emitted.
1.6.3.2. Con: EV's have faster and smoother acceleration, immediate throttle response, lower center of gravity, all without disturbing other people because of the silent motor
1.6.3.3. Con: On the contrary the rapid acceleration & smooth power delivery of most EV’s is more fun.
1.6.3.4. Con: Having a Grandfather as a mechanic and love of cars, motorbikes had always been more fun on road, off road and racing. Then I bought a Model X. Which is hands down the most fun ever! EV's have what feels like instant torque and makes ICE vehicles feel sluggish.
1.6.4. Pro: Electricity can be produced virtually anywhere through solar, wind etc. whereas fossil fuel has to come from specific places and be refined and transformed before it's used.
1.6.5. Con: With a lot of the new advances in technology electric cars have come a long way in terms of battery power. But, we are offloading the use of fossil fuels further up the line. Instead of it being consumed in your gas tank it's now being consumed at the power plant. I spoke with an expert from the international climate Science Institute recently, who believes that the US has plenty of fuel in reserve not to mention what it hasn't drilled for yet. [thecharlestendellshow.com](http://thecharlestendellshow.com/podcast/why-the-hell-is-it-snowing-in-the-south-seriously-with-tom-harris/)
1.6.5.1. Pro: The USA is not the only country in the world. Much of Europe, for example, has pushed ahead with renewable sources of power. In the UK in 2017 many days were completely coal free. France is pledged to be completely free of coal by 2021. Denmark frequently has 100% renewable and has to export to neighbouring countries. As the grid gets cleaner every EV on the road automatically gets cleaner. So we are not just offloading further up the line we are replacing fossil fuel with renewables.
1.6.5.2. Pro: Battery powered vehicles provide compatibility to renewable electricity sources, unlike fuel powered vehicles. This issue lies in the future of energy and less in electric vehicles.
1.6.5.3. Con: It is more efficient to burn fossil fuels at the plant to generate electricity than to burn fossil fuels at the individual vehicle.
1.6.5.4. Con: Regardless of how much hydrocarbon fuels are in reserve or still available for drilling.  Doing so converts them into carbon dioxide which is causing dramatic harm to the earth as a whole.  We need to eliminate the further consumption of hydrocarbon fuels no matter how much may be left.
1.6.5.4.1. Pro: Luckily for us, the stone age did not end because of a lack of stones, even though stones did not cause any environmental damage humanity started to use better methods. There is no reason to keep using fossil fuels just because we didn't ran out of them yet. But there are many reasons to stop using them.
1.6.6. Pro: Use of power with zero environmental impact can be achieved with electric motors rather than burning fuel that pollutes.  Use of batteries could be reduced with solar powered roads.   Nuclear power and electric trains are a model of how that may work.
1.6.7. Pro: EV's are more enjoyable than ICEV's
1.6.7.1. Pro: Other than the wonderful sound of pistons firing, EVs are as a general rule much faster, smoother, and more comfortable than gas vehicles.
1.6.8. Con: Relying 100% on electricity and batteries is only going to change what our problems are not solve them. Having a variety of different type of personal vehicles is the ideal option instead of 100% one or the other.
1.6.8.1. Con: It is a change in the good direction. Electricity is more widely available than fossil fuels and for a battery you only have to buy the chemicals once and after the lifetime of the battery you can re-use the same chemicals to create a new battery.
1.6.9. Con: Electric cars will be just as stuck in traffic as ICEVs. Congestion in cities lowers the quality of life \(time wasted, stress\) considerably for many people.
1.6.9.1. Pro: If anything electric vehicles prop up the current car-centric infrastructure that prevents cities reconfiguring to reduce congestion permanently.
1.6.9.2. Pro: It is important that autonomous vehicles evolve in pace with electric vehicles otherwise the amount of cars will indeed not vary or actually grow which would cancel out many of its benefits. Car sharing would also be a solution but not many are willing to do so.
1.6.10. Pro: At present 1% of electricity in the grid is wasted \(in heating up grid components\) when supply exceeds demand. EVs can use this wasted heat and spare stress on grid components
1.6.11. Pro: Fossil Fuels will eventually run out. EVs can run on renewable energy. Long term EVs are better because they will actually be able to go places whereas fossil fuel vehicles won't be able to move due to lack of fuel.
1.6.11.1. Pro: Electric cars increase the demand for solar and wind, which are already being added to the system- in fact, Entergy told me that I can contribute to the grid with my solar array and it reduces my electric bill to next to nothing as long as they have a switch to turn it off if and when they need to service the lines. Therefore, if we all contribute, cars have direct link to renewable sources!
1.6.11.2. Pro: EVs set us up for the future when we will have more an option  to use renewable energy as the proportion of renewables increases.
1.6.11.3. Pro: We will eventually run out of fossil fuels, which makes transportation relying on regenerative energy sources inevitable
1.6.11.3.1. Con: If fossil fuels run out, fuel prices will naturally reflect the decreased demand and make electric vehicles more economically efficient at the time. This threshold remains in the distant future beyond the expected lifespan of existing EVs, and thus this is not a good reason EVs are currently better than hydrocarbon-based vehicles.
1.6.11.3.1.1. Con: In order to be able to properly switch to electric vehicles, the technology needs to be advanced enough at that point. Economy is naturally a strong force in research as can be seen with the big leaps in battery technology right now. So EVs need to be available right now and need  to be pushed in order to evolve more effectively and quicker.
1.6.11.4. Pro: EVs are better in the long run. This is because eventually we will be depleted of our fossil fuel resources and so we will have to switch to renewable sources of energy. If EVs are mainstream at that point of time, then switching to renewable sources of energy would be much smoother.