Discussion Title: Equality of Outcome vs Equality of Opportunity

1. Equality of Outcome vs Equality of Opportunity
1.1. Equality of Outcome is a desirable goal for a society!
1.1.1. Con: Equality of outcome implies we use artificial means rather than economic incentives to steer society into opportunities. Which is far too costly. A reason the USSR failed.
1.1.2. Con: Equality of outcome is an impossible feat. People should be treated equally, however, when it comes to in income, not all jobs are created equal. Jobs that require more skill or are more dangerous, should have a higher pay scale than jobs that can be done by anyone
1.1.3. Con: No one believes or expects literal equality of outcomes -- people are different, so the same outcome could not make everyone happy.  What we should strive for is equality of fairness of outcomes.
1.1.3.1. Con: Fairness is subjective. Since it is subjective, utilizing the free market with equal opportunity is the best way to let it play out fairly - hence why we need to have varying outcomes. Allowing a centralizing power to determine what is “fair” is clearly not ideal.
1.1.3.2. Pro: People recognize that it's fair to offer great rewards for great achievements.  No one thinks they should make as much as LeBron James \(unless perhaps they are James Hardin\).
1.1.3.3. Pro: When outcomes are very different across race and gender, [as they are](https://iwpr.org/publications/gender-wage-gap-2017-race-ethnicity/), it's reasonable to infer that those outcomes are unfair.
1.1.3.3.1. Con: Not necessarily. An overly simplistic unidimensional analysis might be quite misleading.
1.1.3.3.1.1. Pro: A unidimensional analysis does not take into account the reasons: motivations, ambitions, environmental factors, mentality etc, which are key to the investigation of the problem.
1.1.3.3.1.2. Con: But it does show that there might be a problem! It definitely points out that there is a difference.
1.1.3.3.1.2.1. Con: But not necessarily a difference in fairness. It may be a difference in choices.
1.1.3.4. Pro: An outcome is unfair if one person does the same thing as another but is rewarded less.
1.1.3.4.1. Con: Not necessarily true, if all people involved are involved voluntarily, as with most employment contracts, then nothing is unfair. For example, a company hires two people to dig holes for swimming pools, one asks for $30k/yr, the other asks for $35k/yr. The company agrees. The two employees got hired at the same time, and are doing the same thing, and each received what they asked for. Neither has been treated unfairly.
1.1.4. Con: A person with more income will always need other people with lower incomes to work in his stead, because he lacks the time. By definition since time is a finite resource, a rich person has little to do with his money if everyone around him is equally rich. Equality of outcome does not motivate because people's time is a limited resource.
1.1.5. Pro: Inequality breeds violence - and is hence a societal problem, that needs to be countered \(see[Structural violence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Structural_violence)\).
1.1.5.1. Con: No persons are equal, so it is only fair to have unequal outcomes based on a person’s competency, work ethic, experiences, etc. With this being said - creating equal outcomes may cause more violence \(or other forms of unrest\) because it is less fair than the alternative.
1.1.5.2. Con: Violence is countered by the justice system and imprisonment.
1.1.5.2.1. Con: Citing an [article](https://abcnews.go.com/US/story?id=95580&page=1): “It seems like the more we expand the prison system, the fewer benefits we get in terms of crime reduction..."
1.1.5.2.1.1. Con: The cited article itself mentions several of its own weaknesses, correlation is not causation. In it one of the experts is quoted as saying, "tells us nothing, absolutely nothing", another says, "these kinds of estimates are of limited value".
1.1.5.2.1.2. Con: The article points out that crime rate dropped, just not in correlated levels, and suggests diminishing returns, but it still dropped.
1.1.5.2.1.3. Con: The study is focused on all crime, not violent crime. Based on the source linked, we can't say anything definitively about how it affects violent crime.
1.1.5.2.1.4. Con: In the article a few experts attribute the drop in crime to various factors, "improved economy, changes in the drug trade, new policing methods and demographic shifts, continued decline in crack cocaine use" and mentions that there are other factors as well. During the same period income inequality between the top 20% and bottom 20% grew from 84k to 116k [Income Data](https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/cps/tables/time-series/historical-income-households/h02ar.xls)
1.1.5.2.1.5. Con: Since 1995 the period in which the study covers, income inequality has grown from 99k to 212k, an increase of 214%. Violent crime reports have dropped by 20%. And the US population has grown by 23%. Meaning the crime rate has declined by 54%. Prisons might not be the answer, but inequality of outcomes doesn't seem to be driving this as they're negatively correlated. [Violent Crime Stats](https://www.statista.com/statistics/191129/reported-violent-crime-in-the-us-since-1990/) [Population Data](http://www.worldometers.info/world-population/us-population/) [Income Data](https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/cps/tables/time-series/historical-income-households/h02ar.xls)
1.1.5.2.1.6. Con: Australia is ranked 7th in income equality, the US is ranked 169th. [Income Equality Rankings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_income_equality) Since 1996 US assault rate is down 43.6% while Australia's is up 150%. Rape rate in US is down 36.5%, Australia's is up 22%.[Comparitive Violent Crime Rates](https://extranosalley.com/violent-crime-rates-u-s-vs-australia/) Equality of outcome doesn't seem to affect crime rates in a positive manner either.
1.1.5.3. Con: The simple difference in money, status, job or power does not breed violence. Inequality only breeds violence when perceived as unfair or the gap is perceived as impossible to breach. As long as everyone has a real chance to climb the ladder, there is no cause for crime here.
1.1.5.4. Con: Having nothing to lose, IE desperation, breeds violence. Not simple inequality of outcome. One can be well in the presence of a financial titan and not even resent them.
1.1.5.5. Con: Inequality can breed competition, which very rarely results in violence.
1.1.6. Pro: Everybody is born equal! By not redistributing wealth to the lower classes, we force people into poverty.
1.1.6.1. Con: How are people born equal? We certainly have differences in physical traits, intelligence and other mental traits, health, values and cultures of families we’re born into, income and location of families we’re born into, etc. Because we are different, our measurable outcomes should also be different.
1.1.6.1.1. Con: No person's outcome should be completely decided by things they are born with and cannot change. Values and culture are learned things, and can be unlearned. While being born into a wealthy family certainly provides advantages and in my opinion should, that doesn't mean someone born into a poor family should be doomed to be poor, through their own efforts they should be allowed to rise.
1.1.6.2. Pro: Inequality of outcomes leads to inequality of opportunities over generations. We not only force people into poverty but clearly orienting their offspring into lower income and poverty again.
1.1.6.2.1. Con: There may be a disconnect about the definition of opportunity here\(I usually think equality of opportunity, could be better worded as equality of access to rights\). However, there is no opportunity available to the wealthy that isn't available to the poor. Going to Harvard university isn't an opportunity, getting an education is. Even then, if a poor person is diligent in high school, and shows the necessary traits, Harvard will provide a scholarship.
1.1.6.3. Con: Gains from efforts are the only motivating force behind the efforts. Distributing outcomes demotivates the achievers.
If a Society loses it's achievers, it is doomed!
1.1.6.3.1. Con: The consistent design behind tax plans is to tax only a fraction of gains; The motivator is never eliminated.
1.1.6.3.1.1. Con: However some countries \(such as Finland\) employ [progressive income tax](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Progressive_tax), which means the more you earn, the more you pay. And there are ideas floating around for extreme versions of this - such as the [100% income tax](https://www.google.ee/amp/s/m.mic.com/articles/amp/174491/how-would-a-100-tax-on-the-rich-even-work-a-lesson-on-real-tax-rates-from-the-french) idea in France.
1.1.6.3.2. Con: For many people the motivating force is not simply personal gain but a higher goal.  People join the fire department, become teachers, work for non-profits or run for office even though other jobs may pay better.
1.1.6.3.2.1. Con: These higher goal jobs are less subject to the “equality in outcomes” debate since firemen, teachers already fullfil their outcome by helping people. Also they come in less proportion when compared to rest of the people working for money or achieve a higher standard of life outside of their \(less fullfilling\) work.
1.1.6.3.3. Pro: True in part, but the value of what is gained is relative to how hard/easy it is to achieve it. Hence, small benefits can have high percieved value. It’s psychological. Similar to how a smaller net raise in salary is percieved better than a bigger net raise, if ones colleagues’ levels of raise is less. I.e. more money can be percieved as worse than less, because we’re relative beings.
1.1.6.3.4. Con: It is a fallacy to state that there is one single force -- pay -- that motivates people to choose one profession or job opening over another.
1.1.6.3.4.1. Con: While it is true that pay is not the only motivator for work, it is also true that if one is not rewarded with a higher pay one would not put themselves through med-school, living poor and working a lot as a student and finishing with a high level of debt.
1.1.6.3.4.2. Con: Pay is not the single force, but it seems to be the most measurable one and the outcome that’s the best subject to being leveled or evened between people.
1.1.6.4. Con: No one is forced into poverty, there isn't anyone going around saying, "That one over there, strip them of their property and leave them to die in the streets". If people are born into a bad situation or have fallen into one, and they don't want to be there, it is incumbent upon them to find a way out. No one is stopping them from getting out, there are several offering advice on how to get out, and even some actively providing aid to get out.
1.1.6.4.1. Con: The weak are constantly being exploited by the strong, whether it is landlords charging too much rent, tobacco manufacturers promoting cigarettes or drug pushers luring the vulnerable into addiction.
1.1.7. Pro: Lacking equality of outcomes for working families, early childhood health outcomes vary widely, making equality of opportunity impossible. Some equality of outcomes for families is necessary for meaningful equality of opportunity.
1.1.7.1. Con: -> See 1.1.6.4.
1.1.8. Con: Equality of outcome is restricted by the lowest common denominator. True equality of outcome requires lowering all in society to the worst condition possible. this is because there is no way to perfectly alleviate all physical and mental deficits, and without forcibly adding a handycap to those of sound mind and body, there can be no true equality of outcome. it is an eternal fight against reality, entropy, and natural selection.
1.1.9. Con: -> See 1.1.6.3.
1.1.10. Con: Equality of outcome is simply impossible. This is because it runs contrary to what culture is. Culture is a set of values shared by a group of people, which the group prioritises above others. Some people in the group will embody these values to a greater extent than others, such as creativity, leadership, scientific acumen etc. As a result, these people will inevitably enjoy greater status within the group, even if they started out with equality of opportunity!
1.1.11. Pro: One example of equality of outcome we should support is Equal Pay for Equal Work.
1.1.11.1. Con: This does not sound like an argument for equality of outcomes. Plus - the best and fairest way to promote equal pay for equal work is through free market principles and equality of opportunity.
1.1.11.2. Con: Two employees being in the same position doesnt mean they do equal work- take in account overtimes taken, holidays taken, and competencies. There are better/more competent, more motivated and enthusiastic workers, and worse/less motivated, less competent and enthusiastic workers. Its important to reward the hard working ones, and its an entirely illogical to pay a medicore and an excellent worker the same just because they are in the same position.
1.1.11.2.1. Con: This describes equal pay for unequal work, without providing an actual con to the idea of equal pay for equal work
1.1.11.3. Con: Equal work is an extremely hard thing to measure even in a similar company, similar position and comparing similar people. One person could have same skillset, but less knowledge of a market than another while being in a similar position. Another one would be in the company for a longer time and has a higher pay as a reward for hard work, but then another new person taking a similar position will have a hard time justifying the same pay.
1.1.11.4. Con: This is not a societal example of the general principle of "equality of outcome", it doesn't apply to society at large. It only applies to the small subset of people doing the same job, at the same company, for the same amount of time, for the same amount of hours, with the same level of experience, and showing the same level skill.
1.1.12. Con: "Equality of outcomes" is a straw man.  What people are asking for is the elimination of gross inequality of outcomes, whereby [a small group captures virtually all added wealth](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/08/07/opinion/leonhardt-income-inequality.html) in recent decades.
1.1.12.1. Con: Although the majority of the spoils of modern times went to a relatively small top, the rest also gained significantly. Just compare current times with 100 years ago.
1.1.12.2. Pro: In addition, in situations of such gross income inequality, equal opportunity is also damaged. Children of the wealthy elite get access to better schools, better neighborhoods, better connections, healthier living which translates to better jobs, incomes and life outcomes.
1.1.12.2.1. Con: This isn't a damage to equality of opportunity, a person's hard work should pay off, in this case that pay off is in the form of benefits to their children, maybe even grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, etc. "Equal opportunity" is perhaps poorly worded, and is better understood as "Equal access to rights". If not understood in this manner one generation's opportunities are the outcomes of the previous generation, so equality of outcome = equality of opportunity and vice versa.
1.1.12.3. Con: Society can never have equality of outcome, even only in the monetary dimension, and every time it has been tried it has ended up miserably for its citizens.

Let's say you actually manage at one point to get money distributed completely equal, then you would have achieved monetary equality of outcome, right? Well, only for a little while, before some people spend all of it, and others invest or save it, only to lead back to economic inequality. Economic habits and fluctuations mean everything.
1.1.12.3.1. Con: Redistribution does in fact create more total wealth at the lower extreme of the spectrum, while it diminishes total wealth at the higher extreme of the spectrum. The value of total wealth is affected in many ways by redistribution and the compound effect is never as black and white as claimed here.
1.1.12.3.2. Con: Even if you assume that the effect will be so black and white as claimed here, there is a question of utility: Do you really value €1 profit after taxes as equal to €1 spent on education or health care projects that are not profitable enough for the private sector?
1.1.12.3.3. Con: It's possible to strive for a greater equality of outcome without necessarily striving for absolute equality of outcome. In this respect, there are also a multitude of examples of progressive taxation and poverty-alleviation programs that have had great economic and human developmental success.
1.1.13. Pro: Inequality arises at least in part from [rent-seeking](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rent-seeking) activities that do not benefit society.  These activitiies should be curtailed.
1.1.13.1. Con: Rent seeking is a fair outcome based on numerous variables. It is just another example of unequal outcomes. It’s effect on the distribution of outcomes is irrelevant.
1.1.13.2. Con: Rent seeking partially stems from self-interest which cannot be curtailed as it is a facet of human nature. Thus trying to ban rent-seeking outright is impractical.
1.1.13.2.1. Con: Attempting to curtail rent-seeking is not the same goal as outright banning it.
1.1.13.3. Con: Rent seeking is a reclassification of the American dream in negative terms. Realistically, it is a moral positive, and an economic positive. Both for the individual and the nation. And is in fact the basis for economic growth
1.1.13.4. Pro: Socially unproductive rent-seeking practices account for excessive profits and unequal outcomes.  Measured by social value, teachers should make at least as much as bankers, but they make far less.
1.1.13.4.1. Con: In free markets, all jobs are paid exactly what they're worth. Any person at any time can seek to be paid more. If they can find no one willing to pay the higher rate, then the market has decided that they aren't worth it.
1.1.13.4.1.1. Con: Jobs are not always valued in correlation to their social worth, but to their social worth in relation to those with the available money and interest. Teachers boast higher salaries in Nordic countries that both value their job, and have the broad support of those with money. In the US, though low-income communities similarly value teaching, they lack the financial power to support it as strongly.
1.1.13.4.2. Con: Really great teachers that teach highly specialized market valuable skills make a lot, Harvard university professors are paid $200k/yr [Harvard Professor Salary Data](https://www.businessinsider.com/harvard-has-highest-paid-professors-2012-4). Banker's make an average of $71k/yr.[Banker Salary Data](https://work.chron.com/much-money-bankers-make-23224.html)
1.1.14. Con: Equality of outcomes is the measure of success, not the goal.  The goal is material security and the opportunity to lead a fulfilling life.
1.1.14.1. Con: By definition, measures of success and goals are the same thing. How do you know that you've reached your goal, look at your measure of success. If your measure of success suggests you're not where you want to be, then you need to take action to increase your success until you reach your goal. If the goal is material security and opportunity to lead a fulfilling life, then your measure of success is what % of people are materially secure? Not equality of outcome. They lead different places.
1.1.14.2. Con: Unqualified workers can work full time and still lack security or opportunity to lead a fulfilling life.
1.1.15. Con: Equality of outcome will only arise when individuals have their freedom taken. Inequality is the default not the norm. Some people are smarter, some are dumber. Some people are more attractive and some are less. Making society equal in outcome would mean making everyone the same.
1.1.15.1. Con: Equality of Outcome does not mean everyone must become a day laborer and make $50,000 per year in salary. The analysis of equality must be constrained to a particular granularity or sub-class of interest, like pay between genders for identical work. Unfettered freedom leads to unfettered inequality, that is the case today. It should be possible to strike a balance where many freedoms are preserved, like choosing a profession, and yet inequality of outcomes is minimized within that profession.
1.1.15.1.1. Con: While some cases of inequality in pay are plain and unjustified discrimination, there are some justifications to have different pay for the same job. Female porn stars \(and yes, the industry has a myriad of problems\) get paid way more per film than their male counterparts because the demand for them is higher. Male teachers \(in Estonia\) get paid 30% more to motivate men to become teachers \(the F/M ratio is [82/18%](https://www.google.ee/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=http://gpseducation.oecd.org/Content/EAGCountryNotes/EST.pdf&ved=2ahUKEwiMxZfK3ejdAhXDWCwKHZ0LApoQFjAAegQIBBAB&usg=AOvVaw3HPcixt6KvaO_cQXe1pMYB)\). In both cases demand drags up the price, not bigotry or malevolent intent.
1.1.15.1.2. Con: -> See 1.1.11.4.
1.1.15.2. Pro: it would also force people into positions they did not chose or were competent for
1.1.16. Con: -> See 1.1.12.3.
1.1.17. Con: Some cohort might not like a particular outcome and might thus not strive as much to achieve it, as another cohort.
1.1.17.1. Pro: It seems that men are not anymore that interested in becoming doctors in the Western world, as nearly in all countries, more women are becoming doctors, then men.
1.1.18. Con: It is impossible to measure the degree to which outcomes are "equal".
1.1.18.1. Con: While I don't agree with the goal of equality of outcome, most of the time that I have encountered the topic those advocating it usually have lots of ways to objectively measure it. Income levels, prison population demographics, demographics of people in high level government or corporate positions, etc. etc.
1.1.19. Con: Objectively measuring therefore achieving any form social equality is impossible.
1.1.19.1. Con: -> See 1.1.18.1.
1.1.19.2. Con: But striving for it is crucial. The million dollar question is: how? We know from studies that in a free society [Pareto distribution](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto_distribution) tends to apply. What to do with that?
1.1.19.2.1. Con: Striving for goals of equality outcome rather than the optimisation of individual potential through opportunity, could lead a society into disaster as it has in many socialist experiments already. People are not born equal and even given equal opportunity or outcome, will produce very different results.
1.1.19.2.2. Con: It is better to live in a free society with unequal distribution, than in an enslaved society in which everyone is equally miserable \(excluding the very small and corrupt ruling elite leading the society\).
1.1.20. Pro: I do not begrudge anyone to desire material prosperity, and become rich by means of effort. BUT society must stipulate certain minimum standards for what constitutes an acceptable livelihood. These standards must be met, and in fact society exists for that reason alone - to provide securities. The prosperous must, in order to strive for their ambition within the framework of society, accept a sacrifice that results in the above. If they refuse they should emigrate elsewhere.
1.1.20.1. Con: I completely agree with you, but is this not equality of opportunity rather than equality of outcome. If I understand you correctly, what you want is to have a social minimum standard of living and not putting everyone on the same budget.
1.1.20.2. Con: This has already been done. The minimum standard that has already been selected might not be to everyone's liking, but that doesn't mean it hasn't been done. For example being poor in the U.S. is way better than being poor in Sub-Saharan Africa.
1.1.20.3. Pro: Because humans are social beings, society has a moral \(pro-social\) obligation to give additional help to those born with less ability or social capital.
1.1.20.4. Con: Societies minimum standards do not need to be to livelihood. But rather to the protection of life, liberty, and opportunity
1.2. Equality of Opportunity is a desirable goal for a society!
1.2.1. Pro: If we start rewarding mediocracy by granting everyone the same outcome, noone will bother working hard for their goals, therefore progress stops.
1.2.2. Pro: equality of opportunity is desirable. If people gets equal outcome then most loose incentive to put an up an effort since the outcome is gonna be the same anyway, this means loss in productivity and innovation.
1.2.2.1. Pro: Can draw a parallel to games here: If the reward for winning is the same as the rewards for loosing, why would anyone aim to win?
1.2.2.2. Pro: When saying "equality of opportunity" we don't mean that everyone starts with the same, there is always gonna be some who is richer, someone who is healthier and so on. But everyone will get the same basic access to education, welfare and so on so everyone has a chance to do great in society.
1.2.3. Con: The whole point of succeeding in life is giving his/her offspring a head start in a finite resources world. Equality of opportunity makes motivation for better outome worthless.
1.2.4. Pro: Equality of opportunity is the fundamental building block to the western civilization which has undergone the biggest leap of public wealth and living standard in all of human history because people out of their own egoistic human nature will try to offer the best service as they can, to as many people as they can to elevate their monetary positions without government interference.
1.2.5. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.3.
1.2.6. Con: Equality of Opportunity is just Equality of Outcome for the previous generation. We should be pursuing, and I believe the US has already mostly achieved equality of access to rights.
1.2.7. Con: Unhindered Equality of Outcome creates a situation, where - thanks to [feedback loops](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feedback) - winners keep winning and losers keep losing.
1.2.7.1. Pro: Letting losers keep losing is a grave threat to Society at large. [A Study](http://www.scielo.br/pdf/rbp/v31s2/en_v31s2a06.pdf) claims that poverty, family history of criminality, precarious upbringing, failing at school, attention deficit, hyperactivity and antisocial behavior during childhood are key predictors for aggressive behavior.
More aggressive individuals have a deficit in processing social
information i.e., their ability to process information, interpret and ponder the risks and benefits of his or her actions.
1.2.7.2. Con: The Society is not responsible for the failures of the individual. Failure is the price for success.
1.2.7.2.1. Con: Society produces enough wealth that no one has to fail to the point that they are lacking in basic needs.  Instead of losers and winners we can have winners and big winners.
1.2.8. Con: We can and should offer opportunity, but it's erroneous to expect we can offer 'equal' opportunities to all.
1.2.9. Con: Some degree of equality of outcomes is the only meaningful measure of equality of opportunity.
1.2.9.1. Con: Qualitative studies could be done in order to identify any barriers to certain groups within a given field.
1.2.9.1.1. Con: Quantitative* would be more informative.
1.2.9.1.1.1. Con: Quantitative studies would be difficult without the use of equality of outcome
1.2.9.1.1.2. Con: Quantitative outcomes are useful for statistical analysis, but often rely on arbitrary outcome scales
1.2.9.2. Pro: This may be true... but only if the measure of outcome uses a multivariate analysis that includes all relavent factors.
1.2.9.3. Con: Doing a multivariate anaylis is difficult because determining all appropriate variables is subjective. The best way to achieve equality of opportunity is by focusing on individual rights instead of trying to group people together.
1.2.9.4. Pro: To relativistically measure, a standard must exist to be measured against.
1.2.9.5. Con: Equality of outcomes and equality of opportunity are not tied to each other in anyway. They are polar opposites. The only way to have anything resembling equality of outcome, is to manage the playing field. Anyone pulling away from those falling behind, must be held back to allow the others to catch up. If there is equality of opportunity it is nearly impossible to have equality of outcome. There will be small groups with similiar outcomes, but that will be by choice.
1.2.9.5.1. Con: Real equality of opportunity demands that every person is brought up on the exact same conditions, which is impossible.
1.2.9.5.1.1. Pro: Legal equality doesn't imply social equality, thus wealth distribution is needed to provide social equality.
1.2.9.6. Con: This is absolutely false. For example, three people are each offered a free pizza, one gets pepperoni, the next meat lovers, the last a supreme. There is obviously an inequality of outcome, but all 3 had the exact same opportunities.
1.2.9.7. Pro: One person's outcome is just the starting point for another's opportunity. If you messed up in life and are in poverty, and you have children, your mistakes will cause your child to: attend a worse school district, be exposed to more crime because you live in a worse area; have worse parenting because you will be too busy working odd jobs and too poor to afford a high quality babysitter; etc. [brookings.edu](https://www.brookings.edu/book/dream-hoarders/) Some equality of outcome or redistributive policies are needed for equal opportunity
1.2.9.7.1. Con: You're absolutely right that one generation's outcomes are the next generation's opportunities. The problem is "Equality of Opportunity" is very poorly worded. When I say it, I typically mean equality of access to rights. In response to your anecdotal example. Ben Carson was raised by a struggling single mother, through his own hard work he has risen to become a multi-millionaire, his children will now be better off than he was. It's possible to break the cycle.
1.2.9.8. Con: The problem with that is the subjective nature of the measure.
1.2.10. Pro: An equal starting line gives everyone an equal shot at achieving goals
1.2.10.1. Con: A disabled person will not have the same opportunity as others, in spite of an equal starting line, they need extra support.
1.2.10.2. Con: An equal starting line between a poor child and the child of a billionaire is not possible.
1.2.10.2.1. Con: An equal starting line between their grandchildren, however, might be. [Social mobility](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_mobility) should be strived for.
1.2.10.3. Con: If the opportunities include succeeding by exploiting people or harming the planet, then people with a strong conscience will be at a disadvantage.
1.2.10.3.1. Con: Unless an overriding universal moral code is established.
1.2.11. Con: There is no practical way to provide equality of opportunity to the child of a poor person and the child of a billionaire.
1.2.11.1. Pro: Income level, location, income, etc. of the families we’re born into are all outcomes that do not involve competencies required for achieving our own outcomes as individuals. This is a case of correlation without causation.
1.2.11.2. Con: This argument is speaking past the claim as a desirable goal need not be attainable.
1.2.11.3. Con: The when the signatories of the Declaration of Independence listed the "pursuit of happiness" as an unalienable right, they implied that the burden to achieve success lies with the individual. Our society provides several avenues for poor people to achieve their version of success. Government funded schools, public libraries, are just a couple of examples. The same materials found at Ivy League schools can be had by anyone willing to do the work.
1.2.11.4. Con: -> See 1.1.6.2.1.
1.2.11.5. Con: Equality of opportunity means equality of rights, it does not mean equality of advantages. Equality of opportunity means noone is arbitrarily restricted by law. The alternative, Equality of outcome, Means artificially and arbitrarily restricting the rights and abilities down to the lowest common denominator, because natural disadvantage cannot be legislated away.
1.2.11.6. Con: There are ways to aim for it and hence mitigate some of the inequality. If those aims help at least one person, then they are worth the effort.
1.2.11.6.1. Con: To say "If those aims help at least one person, then they are worth the effort", is completely false. The challenge is to have the society's input be maximized to the largest groups and not have a small group benefit from society's input.
1.2.11.7. Con: Wealth is not a final indicator of success. Currently any person can get a high quality education for free off the internet. Access to opportunity has never been higher. Individual effort , desire and work ethic will be the final determents for success. Insuring all have access to a great education is vital.
1.2.11.7.1. Con: Research around the social determinants of health highlight the Inequality in terms of outcomes. These inequalities are not due to the ndividual but to the opportunities they are given to succeed.
1.2.11.7.2. Con: Education without certification is not usually enoigh to access employment opportunities. You can learn how to be a great teacher on the internet, but you can't get a teaching job in most places without the relevant state or country certification.
1.2.11.8. Con: Policy almost never achieves the final goal 100% - the question is if you want MORE equality of opportunity, for example by investing in public schooling.
1.2.12. Pro: To achieve equality of opportunity government should encourage affirmative action, because it gives more people the [opportunity to attend a high-quality school](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0272775709001150).
1.2.12.1. Con: Affirmative action is not necessarily the same as equality of opportunity.
1.2.12.2. Con: Affirmative action has nothing to do with equality. It is pretty much the opposite. It is preferential treatment for specific groups. You may be confusing equality with compensation or rectification.
1.2.12.3. Con: A negative consequence of affirmative action is that it encourages people to cultivate victimhood instead of self-reliance and personal responsibility.
1.2.12.4. Con: Traditional affirmative action only looks at race. However there are rich black people and poor white people. The preference should be decided by your caretakers \(parent's, guardian's, exc\) income.
1.2.13. Pro: To achieve equality of opportunity government should pass and strictly enforce anti-discrimination laws.
1.2.13.1. Con: Discrimination based on merit and skill is the only way equality of opportunity makes sense. Anti-discrimination laws \(quotas being the first thing that pops to mind\) only hinder progress
1.2.13.1.1. Con: Anti-discrimination laws keep the social mobility going and is desirable in the long run
1.2.13.1.2. Con: The decisions are being made by human beings, and human beings often have conscious or unconscious biases.
1.2.13.1.3. Con: Anti-discrimination laws spur progress by ruling out factors that have nothing to do with merit or skill.
1.2.13.1.4. Con: The most important anti-discrimination laws in the US \( [the Civil Rights Act of 1964](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_Rights_Act_of_1964), [Titie IX](https://www.womenssportsfoundation.org/advocate/title-ix-issues/history-title-ix/history-title-ix/) in 1972, the [Americans with Disabilities Act](https://adata.org/learn-about-ada) in 1990\) ban discrimination and don't say anything about quotas.
1.2.14. Pro: [Meritocracy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meritocracy) should be the only philosophy governing hiring for state jobs and enrolling in education.
1.2.14.1. Pro: Hiring based on merit ensures that only the most qualified and capable are appointed to the appropriate jobs
1.2.14.1.1. Con: Hiring processes could only be deemed are meritorious if it were a blind process. An individual with a funny surname can be more capable than a Buffet, but won't be given an opportunity because s/he lacks contacts \(or is not a male, or comes from Flint, or... you get it.\)
1.2.14.2. Pro: Enrolling into universities based on merit ensures that resources for educating are spent only on the most motivated.
1.2.14.2.1. Con: Motivation can be affected by opportunity inequalities pre-existing in society, thus making the notion of merit itself unequal.
1.2.14.2.1.1. Con: The concept of merit itself is already unequal. Some people have merit in some fields, others do not. E.g. Some people are really good at math and others aren't
1.2.14.2.2. Con: Merit as indicated by test scores is not a reliable measure of motivation.
1.2.14.2.2.1. Pro: Test scores are a good measure of merit but other means would suit perfectly as measure of motivation alongside with it, such as interviews and etc. Motivation is measured by human interaction.
1.2.14.2.3. Con: One might be good enough to go to university and still don't have the means to pay for the fees.
1.2.14.2.3.1. Con: Equality of opportunity implies, at a minimum, high quality free education for all.
1.2.14.2.3.1.1. Con: Despite same opportunities the parent's input into their children's education will be different.
1.2.14.2.3.1.1.1. Pro: If parents have a college education they can give better advise to children unsure about a field of study.
1.2.14.2.3.1.1.2. Pro: Parents that are smarter can help their children better with homework.
1.2.14.2.3.1.2. Con: Not it doesn't, it just means that everyone has the same education. It may be either good or bad.
1.2.14.2.3.1.2.1. Con: Paywalls to education increase inequality and decrease social mobility
1.2.14.2.3.1.2.1.1. Con: Paywall is a vector if selection over which a parent can have an influence. On selective schools with high quality educations and professors, taking away selection by money means more competition against their kids.
1.2.14.2.3.1.2.1.1.1. Con: Precisely! And that's a positive thing. This way the rich can't buy themselves to exclusive education, and the poor have a chance to compete - that's what judging on merit is for.
1.2.14.2.3.1.2.2. Pro: Being either good or bad makes little difference in the long run if Everyone has the same.
1.2.14.3. Con: Merit is subjective and therefore not a means of employing or educating individuals equally. [Redefining Merit](http://www.socialjudgments.com/docs/Uhlmann%20and%20Cohen%202005.pdf)
1.2.14.3.1. Pro: Values defined as meritorious by society are likely to change constantly as circumstances change. Consider, how might conservative government redefine merit compared to a liberal government, and vice versa.
1.2.14.3.1.1. Con: Changes are a natural part of life and this does not devalue meritocracy - on the contrary, it reinforces it. The more the world is shifting, the more you want competent people in positions of influence.
1.2.14.3.2. Con: Merit required is dictated by the job positions requirements, and is judged by education and job experience, and not the opinion of the employee by the employer.
1.2.14.3.3. Con: Simply because merit can be used as an excuse for bigotry and unfair discrimination, doesn't mean that's all it is.
1.2.15. Pro: -> See 1.2.14.2.3.1.
1.2.16. Con: Objectively measuring therefore achieving any form social equality is impossible.
1.2.16.1. Con: This is simply untrue. Education attainment and disposable income are perfectly adequate ways of measuring social equality.
1.2.16.1.1. Con: These measures don't take into account different choices. Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg are both college drop outs, yet there are many recent graduates who are unemployed. Some people choose to become video game designers and love their lives, yet they make far less than others who choose to become lawyers and end up hating their jobs.
1.2.16.2. Con: No rational proponent of equality of outcome would suggest that the goal is objective and measurable perfectly mathematical equality, and this is true also for equality of opportunity.
1.2.17. Pro: We must assist those who cannot help themselves. Everyone else must have an opportunity to play on a fair field. Outcomes will be derived from personal effort and natural skill. The individual can find their field of expertise and exploit it to their desired level. We need to strive for hierarchies of competence.
1.2.17.1. Con: Competition and war on many levels is avoiding potential competitors to arise. I believe it’s pretty much in human nature to preserve a competitive advantage over other humans to some extends. We could argue that strict equality in opportunities can favor to some extend equality in outcomes. Some could be against that.
1.2.17.2. Pro: People are less willing to try a losing game or even play it. Without equality of opportunities, things are bound to be even harder to people for whom it’s already hard enough
1.2.18. Pro: Children of the wealthy take wealth for granted more often than not, and often strive to establish an identity outside of the wealth-producing identity of their parents: either by spending lavishly, doing non-profit work, becoming an intellectual, or other means.