Discussion Title: Gaming is Good: Are Tabletop RPGs good because they exercise creativity and problem solving skills?

1. Tabletop RPGs are good because they exercise creativity and problem solving skills
1.1. Con: If this were the case, we would see more successful efforts to play RPG's in public spaces, and in ways which previously went untested. Couch potato GMs and Players.
1.1.1. Pro: Game players are normally lazy people.
1.2. Pro: Gamemasters can learn unique skill combinations from their role in the game, such as group organization, planning, math, history, writing, art... all of which may come into play for GMs while building their Worlds.
1.3. Con: While GMing may introduce GMs to sets of required skills, the game itself won't teach them directly in so far as the rules usually do not specifically teach the skills. So for a GM to get good at them through play still requires the GM to be conscientious and dedicated to the quality of their game.
1.3.1. Pro: This means constant creativity and problem solving, not to mention advance planning; this is very helpful for mental development.
1.4. Pro: Players can learn team play, good sportsmanship, and a variety of skills related to things such as history, folklore, literature, math \(calculating odds, statistics, etc\), and to some degree writing, improvisational theater, and other gaming skills that might be akin to chess or go.
1.4.1. Con: Unfortunately most players won't reach for opportunities. It appears that most people want to be spoon feed like babies. Couch potato GMs and Players.
1.5. Con: Players can learn all of these skills by playing combinations of other games, and therefore RPGs are not necessary to learn them.
1.5.1. Con: They may not be necessary, but might be the best at such skill development.
1.6. Pro: Gamesmastering entails creating Worlds, Places, Characters, Back Story, and Adventures, as well as maps, drawings, and portraits of characters.  It's one of the most creative pursuits one can think of.
1.6.1. Con: A lot of games don't allow players to create all of the above, but only select parts with quite narrow parameters.
1.7. Con: While some Gamemasters may pursue all of the creative possibilities of RPG World Building, many simply don't. They just buy modules created by someone else, and run those in a very pro-forma way that does not involve any creativity on their part at all.
1.8. Pro: The improvisational aspect of RPGs encourages and practices quick thinking and sparks the creative/artistic synapses of the brain. It's like a brain workout that improves overall intelligence and performance.
1.9. Con: There is no empirical evidence that playing RPGs improves brain performance. Anecdotally it may seem to be the case, but without scientific study it can not be asserted with validated confidence.
1.9.1. Con: "serious games were found to be more effective in terms of learning and retention , but they were not more motivating than conventional instruction methods."

[psycnet.apa.org](http://psycnet.apa.org/buy/2013-03484-001)