Discussion Title: Germany should dissolve its armed forces ("Bundeswehr").

1. Germany should dissolve its armed forces ("Bundeswehr").
1.1. Pro: Frees up monetary resources for other issues \(taking into account that higher contributions to NATO / UN and others could still be made\)
1.2. Con: Makes the country vulnerable to attacks
1.2.1. Con: As part of NATO and the EU, Germany is protected by mutual military aid contracts.
1.2.1.1. Con: Solely relying on NATO and other centralized institutions would make Germany a free-rider
1.3. Con: Shrinks manpower in case of natural catastrophies etc., where the Bundeswehr often comes to help
1.3.1. Con: The Bundeswehr is one of many institutions involved in the management of natural disasters. Funds freed by the dissolution of the armed forces could be diverted towards institutions such as the Bundesanstalt Technisches Hilfswerk \(THW, Federal Agency for Technical Relief\).
1.4. Con: Weakens Germany's position in international politics
1.5. Con: Limits young men's and women's options to serve their country while obtaining a degree or training
1.5.1. Con: Germany could introduce alternatives such as training people to help with natural disasters or dealing with refugees.
1.6. Pro: Private military companies are better managed and more efficient \(given that PMCs are being hired temporarily / on demand to take over the former Bundeswehr tasks\)
1.6.1. Con: The military should be as far away from private companies as possible. The conflict of interest is just too great. There shouldn't be a profit motive in war.
1.6.1.1. Pro: For example, Blackwater, the military contractor with the US armed forces, [considered](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jun/30/blackwater-security-firm-above-law-us-state-department-killed-17-iraqis) itself above the law.
1.6.2. Con: Private companies have private interests. The military should be controlled by the government, because the government has been elected by the Germans and \(in theory\) represent the Germans. Private companies don't.
1.7. Con: Germany risks weakening its position in the defence industry