Discussion Title: Gods existence can by understood by rationality

1. God's Existence Can Be Understood By Rationality.
1.1. Pro: We can rationalize what's in this world. The world exists, therefore its creator exists. By rationalizing his creation we can rationalize the creator. Therefore God can be understood by rationality.
1.1.1. Con: This argument hinges on the assumption that the world was created which is not a proven claim.
1.1.2. Con: You can not necessarily come to conclusions about a maker by looking at the product. Looking at Picasso's paintings will not tell you what kind of person he was. An alien wouldn't even see that Picasso was a human.
1.2. Pro: God may exist despite evolution taking place.
1.2.1. Pro: Evolution could be an emergent process after God created mankind. This would explain God's co-existence with evolution.
1.2.2. Pro: Evolution may not mean there was no creation by an Intelligent Being\(s\) beforehand. God may exist despite evolution taking place - evolution may even be a part of His creation.
1.3. Con: Absent divine revelation, contemplating what is known or speculating on the unknown \(philosophically\), is limiting—as God exists outside the fully known.
1.3.1. Pro: Understanding a reality outside ours \(religion\) requires something extra. Belief in God, therefore, requires faith.
1.4. Pro: Nature is the only thing worthy of being called "God." Nature can be understood rationally \(by Science\), so God is a thing that can be understood rationally.
1.4.1. Pro: Omnipresence, omnipower and absolute positivity are essencial characteristics of God and is shared by Nature. Therefore, we can conclude Nature is God.
1.4.1.1. Con: [Nature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nature) as the phenomena of the world \(or of life\) is far from having omnipower, there are impossible things that any real entity \(as nature is\) can't do
1.4.2. Con: There is nothing supernatural in nature, as it can be explained by science, so there is no reason, by [definition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deity), to link the name of "God" with nature
1.5. Pro: To speak of the word 'God', means we have an concept of Him. So therefore this concept is understood, and so is God.
1.5.1. Con: 'God' means many different things to different people. To have so many often conflicting ideas about a single concept surely means that concept is not understood. The concept of a Square for example is understood, it's a shape with four sides of equal proportion. The concept of god is not understood.
1.5.2. Con: To understand the existence of god not only means understanding the concept, it also means that he exists. Which does not follow from the claim.
1.6. Pro: [Rationality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rationality) is tightly woven into logic and articulation - language. So the "problem" of God becomes a problem of definition.
1.6.1. Con: We already have some [definitions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nature) of what's the meaning behind the word "God", and by most of them it's a [supernatural](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supernatural) being, and that can't be linked to rationality
1.6.2. Pro: If we, for example, define God as the manifestation of the entire Universe and everything and everyone in it, then this claim is perfectly in line with rationality.
1.6.2.1. Pro: With this definition the usual issues of [omnibenevolence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Omnibenevolence), [Free will](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_will), and [Determinism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Determinism)become irrelevant, because God isn't a separate agent - a creator and a ruler, but instead is creation manifesting itself.
1.7. Con: God doesn't exist, therefore he cannot be known.
1.7.1. Pro: God had supposedly created man but the latter’s apparent poor quality indicates that God might not have created him & may not necessarily exist.
1.7.1.1. Pro: Man who's far from perfect has created products which are practically perfect/almost perfect, practicing quality control in manufacturing, many aiming at “zero defect” quality now. A Perfect God, even a Non-Perfect God, could have had made a much better quality man. But man, who has many faults in character & body, seems to reflect his Maker’s poor quality control. This may mean that God doesn’t exist for if He exists He could have expectedly made a much better quality man.
1.7.1.2. Pro: Man’s products reflect his qualities, especially the qualities of his mind. Man if he is the product of God’s creation also reflects the qualities of God, especially the qualities of His mind. Since an imperfect, defective man could produce plenty of good quality products which reflect well on him, it’s unlikely that God had created an imperfect, defective man who reflects badly on Him. Thus God might not have created man & may not necessarily exist.
1.7.2. Pro: God’s existence may be a misinterpretation/exaggeration – He may not exist.
1.7.2.1. Pro: The creation story of Adam and Eve could be a myth.
1.7.2.1.1. Pro: The story of Adam and Eve is inconsistent with existing evidence of the evolutionary history of mankind.
1.7.2.2. Pro: To say God created man appears a misinterpretation/exaggeration, as it’s man himself who actually created the billions of humans in existence now & in the past through reproduction/birth.
1.7.2.2.1. Pro: Existing evidence suggests that mankind grew and developed in a way inconsistent with the creation stories of the Bible, implying God’s existence may be a misinterpretation/exaggeration as well/God may not exist.
1.7.2.3. Pro: Man might not be the handiwork of God, who may not necessarily exist.
1.7.2.3.1. Pro: It is possible that mankind was engineered by a more advanced civilization rather than an all-powerful deity.
1.7.2.4. Pro: Reasoning showing God may not exist: God may not exist for if He exists He might have done something to correct the defects & weaknesses of man if He had created man, an action which is evidently lacking - just as a manufacturer would correct the defects of his products.
1.7.3. Pro: God might have existed before & might have stopped existing at some point in time.
1.7.4. Con: It can be alleged that there is a source for a universal coherence requirement that presents in physics, and one possible label for that source is "God."
1.7.5. Pro: There is no proof for the existence of a god therefore we are able to conclude there is no god. Believing in the idea of a god is mass-hysteria.
1.7.6. Pro: No one has physically seen or heard from God, yet people claim to easily believe / imagine that God is perfect in every sense. It could be the case that people are merely imagining a being that is greater than other imagined beings like The Incredible Hulk or Spiderman.
1.7.7. Pro: If God were to exist, He wouldn't have gifted mankind with the same Rationality as he has.
1.7.7.1. Con: This is presumptuous. There is no reason why a god would not give its creation the same rationality.
1.7.7.2. Pro: God wouldn't be God if he does not exceed human capabilities. If God would possess the same powers and capabilities as a human, it wouldn't be a God. Therefore God must exceed our capabilities; such as the human ratio.
1.7.7.2.1. Con: We can understand entities that exceed out capabilities. We have lots of fictional media surrounding such entries.
1.8. Pro: Mankind can only understand rationally. We understand God, therefore we understand him rationally.
1.8.1. Con: Something cannot be understood rationally without data. There is no currently reliable data surrounding a god.
1.8.1.1. Con: I understand that I exist and I can know this without data. Not all understanding requires data.
1.8.1.1.1. Con: 'I think therefor I am' is evidence of existence of the self. This is data.
1.8.2. Con: Many think they understand god, but that doesn't mean they do, let alone that everyone does.
1.8.3. Con: Men can understand in many ways - [epiphany](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epiphany_\(feeling\)), for example, requires no rationality. The latter usually follows the former, but the understanding of the subject comes before rationalization.
1.9. Pro: The Creator or God may exist naturally \(without the need of a Higher Creator\).
1.10. Con: Our only way of connecting to God is through love.
1.10.1. Pro: Understanding by Truth is the only way to connect with the coherence of Being. Love is the road to understanding.
1.11. Pro: The Bible is written. Writing is a form of rationality, so therefore God can be understood by rationality.
1.11.1. Con: The Bible would be limited to the knowledge that the people who wrote the bible had of God. By studying it you are not rationalising god, but the ideas of the people who wrote the bible.
1.11.2. Pro: It’s often said without proof that man is made in the image of God. If so, it is reasonable to infer that God would have some similar characteristics to mankind.
1.11.3. Con: The bible has a specific notion of Yaweh. One could gleam understanding of the idea the writers of the bible had of the Christian god from this text but not much else.
1.11.4. Con: Writing is not a form of rationality. Writers might use their rationality in their writing, but they most certainly also use a lot of other things. Like imagination.
1.12. Con: God may exist but His existence may not be knowable or inferable.
1.12.1. Pro: God transcends Rationality
1.12.1.1. Pro: The human mind cannot comprehend His nature rationally. What we describe as God are traits that we valor the most
1.12.1.2. Con: In order to know if god transcends rationality, you would have to understand its parameters which are currently unknown.
1.12.1.2.1. Con: To conclude that something exceeds a matter doesn't mean you need to understand the parameters of that 'something'. As long as it is -more- than the 'matter in question' it is enough to conclude that it exceeds it. Therefore knowledge of the parameters is unnecessary.
1.12.1.2.1.1. Con: If you do not know anything about a matter you cannot know what it transcends.
1.12.1.2.1.1.1. Con: Neither can you deny what it transcends.
1.12.1.3. Con: God is the source of all rationality. By being a rational God, he would be able to be understood through rational thought.
1.12.1.4. Pro: If God is all-powerful, it is reasonable to assume that our conception of God is necessarily limited by the limits of our faculties of reason.
1.12.1.5. Pro: Rationality is a human construct. God is something that transcends human constructs. Therefore we cannot fathom God in these constructs, and so we cannot understand him rationally.
1.12.1.5.1. Pro: Rational order would exist whether humans were present to use rationality for their benefit.
1.12.2. Pro: Humans are far from perfect and make many errors in reasoning. Humans are unlikely to be able to conceive of God or many gods.
1.12.2.1. Pro: A Perfect God, or even a reasonably powerful god, could have had made a much better quality man. But man, who has many faults in character & body, seems to reflect his Maker’s poor quality control.
1.12.3. Pro: The classical God is apparently an imagined God who is infinitely powerful, perfect, immortal, moral, etc., with all the ideal qualities imaginable.
1.12.3.1. Pro: A God with infinite powers likely doesn’t exist & the sensible recourse is to evaluate His possible existence by utilizing reasoning & probability, e.g., comparing the no. of arguments for & the no. of arguments against His existence.
1.12.3.2. Pro: God's presumed attributes are incompatible with the natural world.
1.12.3.2.1. Pro: The classical God is an infinitely powerful/perfect One able to create perfect things. Nature is imperfect. God couldn’t have created an imperfect nature as He’s capable of creating a perfect nature.
1.12.3.2.2. Pro: As there’s much evil, suffering, violence in nature it could also not have been God’s work since He has perfect character/morals & wouldn't allow evil, suffering, violence.
1.12.3.2.3. Pro: Thus nature either exists spontaneously or is created by another entity. The classical God may not exist in reality but only as an idea.
1.12.3.3. Pro: Proving His existence is likely impossible as He probably exists only in the imagination & not in reality.
1.12.3.4. Pro: A more realistic, possible God may be a Spiritual Being with some supernatural powers but not infinite powers. If man could lower his expectations he might find a God in some real person with superior powers instead.
1.12.4. Pro: If the existence of God could be understood through rationality, humans would not have debated the topic for over 1000 years.
1.12.5. Pro: Man often without proof considers himself made in God’s image apparently biasedly using himself as reference for judging God attributing to God human qualities. But God could be mentally & physically so different/inhuman that He could not be recognized/knowable if visible.
1.12.5.1. Pro: Man’s products reflect his qualities, especially the qualities of his mind. Man if he is the product of God’s creation also reflects the qualities of God, especially the qualities of His mind. Since an imperfect, defective man could produce plenty of good quality products which reflect well on him, it’s unlikely that God had created an imperfect, defective man who reflects badly on Him. Thus God might not have created man & may not necessarily exist.
1.12.6. Pro: God’s existence could be governed by physical laws so different that it could not be inferred.
1.12.7. Con: God may exist without being recognized.