Discussion Title: Has austerity damaged the economic and social fabric of the UK?

1. Austerity has damaged the economic and social fabric of the United Kingdom.
1.1. Con: National security is compromised by being a debtor nation to countries like China.
1.2. Pro: Cuts to foreign aid have reduced our standing in the world, and reneged on our responsibility to developing nations.
1.2.1. Con: The UK's spending on development aid has been [steadily growing](https://fullfact.org/economy/uk-spending-foreign-aid/) during the past decade and hit the target mark of 0.7% of GDP for the first time in 2013.
1.2.2. Con: The UK's standing abroad and its responsibilities to developing countries are generally not seen as part of the UK's social and economic fabric.
1.3. Pro: The increase in university fees has burdened young citizens with debt, reducing their ability to save, invest and plan for the future.
1.3.1. Pro: Because of the fees, many citizens have fewer chances to go to the university.
1.3.2. Pro: Fees have contributed to the imbalance between generations, with younger people having poorer prospects than their parents.
1.4. Con: There is no such thing as the economic and social fabric therefore it cannot be damaged.
1.4.1. Con: There may be no generally agreed and coherently defined thing such as economic and social fabric, yet there are indicators that a lot of people would consider expressions of this concept, such as inequality.
1.4.2. Con: By the same logic, we shouldn't be able to talk about other abstract concepts such as "public trust". Yet these concepts clearly serve a purpose and help the public debate, even though their limitations should be kept in mind.
1.5. Con: Government spending is funded by taxes. Responsible fiscal policy makes the UK a more appealing place to do business, increasing the future tax revenues available to spend on essential public services like the NHS.
1.6. Pro: Food banks, homelessness and poverty have increased as a result of cuts to welfare and government-funded support services for vulnerable people.
1.6.1. Con: The share of the population living in absolute poverty has been steady or falling in the past 15 years and the mean as well as median income have increased \([IFS, p. 10, 40](https://www.ifs.org.uk/uploads/R145%20for%20web.pdf)\).
1.6.2. Pro: [Social inequality](https://www.equalitytrust.org.uk/scale-economic-inequality-uk) has increased.
1.7. Con: Welfare is paid for by productive citizens and should be a safety net, not a long-term solution. It was too easy to claim benefits before, and standards were rightly tightened up.
1.8. Con: The solution to poverty is economic growth. Austerity has made the UK more competitive, reducing unemployment and ensuring UK companies, which citizens work for and invest in, continue to succeed.
1.8.1. Con: Productivity is still [lower in the UK](https://www.tutor2u.net/economics/reference/the-uk-productivity-gap) than comparable countries.
1.8.2. Con: Just because the economy grows does not mean that those at the bottom profit from it. In an unequal society the benefits may accrue at the top.
1.9. Pro: Government spending is a key source of investment and consumption in an economy. Reducing it has hindered the economic growth of the UK.
1.10. Pro: Interest rates have been at historic lows since 2008. It would have made sense to spend cheap money on services that improve the lives of UK citizens.
1.10.1. Pro: This presented an opportunity to make investments in the future that have to be made anyway at some point - but, as this opportunity was wasted, at a higher cost. Examples are the expansion of public transport and digital infrastructure.
1.11. Pro: Austerity has disproportionately affected economically marginalised communities who feel left behind by globalisation. This has contributed to the political polarisation we see today.
1.11.1. Pro: Austerity has increased inequality.
1.12. Con: Interest payments are a waste of money, which would be better spent on public services or tax breaks.
1.12.1. Pro: Austerity measures reduce the amount of new loans taken.
1.12.2. Con: Borrowing allows the government to fund a better level of public services, even with the cost of interest payments.
1.12.2.1. Con: This applies only in the short term as the cost of interest payments becomes ever larger. Right now, the UK spends the equivalent of [2.7% of its GDP](https://www.ukpublicspending.co.uk/year_spending_2018UKpn_17pc1n#ukgs302) on interest payments. That is more than it spends on national defense.