Discussion Title: Has George R. R. Martin held back "The Winds of Winter" because of something it contains?

1. George R. R. Martin has deliberately not released "The Winds of Winter" by now because of something it contains.
1.1. Con: In the early years, Martin had a fast pace of writing and released several books within a few years. His last book took six years to complete. Following the trend, this one is taking even longer, but that doesn't suggest it's deliberate.
1.1.1. Pro: Martin did not plot out the series. He has vague notions of the future, but not a clear vision. That means he has to hold all of the intersecting plots in his head, including over 900 characters, while trying to figure out what happens next. It would only make sense if his writing was harder, and slower, the further he went in the series. And, that seems to be the case.
1.2. Pro: At the end of his last book, Lady Stoneheart sent Brienne to kill Jamie. One imagines only one of them survives. If Jamie kills Brienne \(perhaps she is his Nissa-Nissa!\) then everything Brienne does in the last few series could not happen and if the book were released we know Brienne can do nothing important in the last series, ruining a hugely popular character
1.3. Pro: Martin has told people that he has a huge amount written and keeps estimating how much longer it will take - only to revise this estimate over and over again. It is therefore reasonable to assume that something is stopping him.
1.3.1. Con: It's reasonable to assume that the thing that is stopping him is continual revision.
1.4. Pro: Martin should have had huge motivation to get the book released as there is another one - "A Dream of Spring" - to come. All the while, the TV series is nearing its end and will bring the story to a conclusion before the books.
1.5. Con: Martin's editors would most likely be anything but happy if he refused to complete the book.
1.6. Con: If the delay was deliberate, Martin wouldn't mislead his fans with false promises regarding the release date.
1.7. Pro: Martin loves the show and many of the actors. He might want to give them the chance to tell the story and have the surprises and shocks be new to the audience, so he is holding the book until after the final season airs.
1.8. Pro: Money is not the main motivator for Martin, so pushing the book release through to get his payout would not drive him.
1.9. Con: Having the show tell the ending in its own way surely would upset any writer. If Martin could have finished the books and got his version out first, he would have.