Discussion Title: How Should We Judge Other People

1. How Should We Judge Other People?
1.1. Judge by Action
1.1.1. Con: Friends gained by action may not have the best intentions.
1.1.2. Pro: Friends gained by action will attempt to prove themselves as trustworthy.
1.1.3. Con: If the action is not causing harm there is no reason to judge it.
1.1.4. Con: Someone may do something that seems somewhat terrible, but be less blameworthy because of their reasons for doing so.
1.1.4.1. Pro: Someone may hit and incapacitate another person, but we would blame them less if they did so to avoid being stabbed or shot.
1.1.5. Pro: Actions are the most concrete thing to use for judgements.
1.1.6. Con: You may be easier to deceive.
1.1.7. Pro: It is easier to judge a person's character by observable action.
1.2. Judge by Intent
1.2.1. Con: Friends gained by intent may fail at certain actions causing complications to both lives
1.2.1.1. Con: Actions are not the most important thing, and so this doesn't matter.
1.2.2. Pro: Intention allows for failure in action that may not always be possible; if a friend truly cares for you, their sentiment is more important than their mistakes.
1.2.3. Con: In executing good intentions, one may perform terrible acts, of which they would be absolved if they were judged solely by intent.
1.2.4. Pro: The action is observable, so the judging actually occurs when we examine intent. Intent is hard to establish, because we rely on asking the offender to explain why they did what they did. We use clues, such as intonation of voice, expression of face, choice that led to action, previous actions etc, to determine the motivation and to judge the character and intent. The action is observable and a fact of occurence, not needing judgement.
1.2.4.1. Con: 'Intent' is still hard to accurately gauge, and can be lied about; it is not a reliable metric.
1.2.5. Con: It is harder to perceive intent over objective action.
1.2.5.1. Pro: It can also be easily misinterpreted.
1.3. Judge by Consequences of their Actions
1.3.1. Pro: Judgement of people should be based on the effect they have on others and their surroundings rather than internal processes like intentions. Judgement should also be withheld until actions are completed and their effects fully understood.
1.3.2. Pro: Intentions and actions which a person chooses may be mitigating factors, but the effects of their actions are what really matter. If I run over someone with my car, I could be guilty of negligence, manslaughter, or murder/attempted murder. However the most relevant, constant, and objective fact is that I seriously injured/killed someone.
1.3.2.1. Con: The reason someone ended up being seriously injured \(be it negligence or intent to kill\) is indicative, however, of how dangerous you are as a person. Thus, the immediate result is not the only relevant factor to consider.
1.3.3. Con: Judging solely in consequences of an action is dangerous in that someone could do something, as innocuous as scratching their nails on lockers; but then some poor soul in the hallway has some kind of stress related epilepsy, their parents abuse them and scratch nails on chalkboard as a kind of assault on her nerves. She hears what should be a homebound horror at school, starts to panic thinking her parents are there at school, stress-\>seizure-\>fall-\>die. Does the boy go to jail for manslaughter?
1.4. Judge by Mixture of Intent and Action
1.4.1. Pro: Judging by a mixture of action and intent provides greater moral flexibility in the face of a complicated world.
1.4.2. Con: Judging by both brings problems as to what percentage each component deserves.
1.4.3. Pro: People are inherently good, however everyone has the ability to make incorrect choices and mistakes, you judge people based on what they do with the errors they make, and if they repeat these same mistakes without learning from then.
1.4.4. Pro: We should judge by Intent and considering Action only when there is a discrepancy between them or when people act irresponsibly.