Discussion Title: How should Europe deal with refugees from Africa and the Near/Middle East?

1. What is the EU's best strategy to deal with refugees coming from Africa and Near/Middle East?
1.1. The EU should enforce a distribution system between all member states to accommodate asylum seekers.
1.1.1. Pro: We were already so close to it; the increased pressure in recent weeks may have actually changed the context favorably for an agreement
1.1.2. Pro: The [Dublin-Procedure](http://www.ecre.org/topics/areas-of-work/protection-in-europe/10-dublin-regulation.html) has to be banned because it burdens the EU-border-states excessively strong.
1.1.2.1. Pro: Hungary is unable to cope with that many refugees. \([spiegel.de](http://www.spiegel.de/politik/ausland/fluechtlinge-in-suedungarn-behoerden-sind-ueberfordert-a-1051631.html)\)
1.1.2.1.1. Con: Hungary is also unwilling to cope with refugees at all, because of its current government. \([theguardian.com](http://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2015/sep/15/refugee-crisis-hungary-launches-border-crackdown-live-updates); [voanews.com](http://www.voanews.com/media/video/2986874.html)\)
1.1.2.2. Pro: The EU-border-states are those with the least capacity for receiving asylum seekers.
1.1.2.2.1. Con: Border states expecting most refugees should have the anticipated capacities. When those governments don't spend the money appropriately why should the others bear that burden
1.1.2.2.1.1. Pro: Money from the EU came in in big amounts for decades. These states had plenty of time to adapt their structures
1.1.2.2.1.1.1. Con: These countries were not adapting their structures to the refugee crisis, but for an internal economical growth.
1.1.2.2.1.1.2. Con: The refugee crisis is not a decade old yet. EU cannot backtrack investments into its border states that were already allocated in the spent budgets of these countries.
1.1.2.2.1.1.3. Con: This does not make them automatically responsible to drown in refugees.
1.1.2.2.1.2. Pro: Greece already got a lot of money from other EU members and the money cannot be used yet, because of internal disputes.
1.1.2.2.1.2.1. Con: The money does not lay and wait for the unexpected international conflict.  The money in the argument was already used internally and does not exist.
1.1.2.2.1.2.2. Con: Greece was against these conflicts. It had no involvement in preceding conflicts before the refugee crisis. It does not hold responsibility for the situation.
1.1.2.2.1.2.3. Con: Adding more problems to the country in a financial crisis is hardly an adequate solution. It will affect EU reputation and destabilise the trust of other boarder states.
1.1.2.2.1.3. Con: Majority of the border states were not involved in the conflict that preceded the refugee crisis. Why should the border states hold responsibility for the acts they did not commit?
1.1.2.2.2. Pro: Border countries, ie. Poland receive additional level of migrants from non-eu countries \(economic migrants\). This should be taken into consideration when assessing capacity of receiving asylum seekers.
1.1.2.3. Con: The EU border states voluntarily joined the Dublin agreement which was essentially a separate contract between sovereign countries and not enshrined in the EU structure in the beginning
1.1.2.3.1. Con: This is not a question of whether the Dublin agreement is a part of the basic EU structure or not.
1.1.2.4. Pro: Italy had to cancel their sea rescue programme "Mare Nostrum" which cost them about €9 million a month. \([proasyl.de](http://www.proasyl.de/de/news/detail/news/europas_schande_triton_und_mare_nostrum_im_vergleich/)\)
1.1.2.5. Pro: Greece is overchallenged with tens of thousands of refugees. \([wsj.com](http://www.wsj.com/articles/financially-strapped-greece-struggles-with-flood-of-refugees-1440921228)\)
1.1.2.6. Con: It is not the the Dublin agreement in first place but geography that puts the burden to southerns states like Greece and Italy. So even without Dublin those countries should protect their borders and not send them along to Germany or Sweden.
1.1.2.6.1. Con: You do not "protect your borders" against refugees. Seeking asylum is a human right. [en.m.wikipedia.org](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right_of_asylum)
1.1.2.6.2. Con: The Dublin agreement is deeply unfair without a system to share the burden between all EU states. Therefore we should not blame the southern states fore letting some refugees through.
1.1.3. Con: Enforcing such a distribution system hits extensive resistance within the population of several EU members \(see UK for example\).
1.1.3.1. Con: It will split the EU in the same way, when the EU-border-countries are left alone with this problem.
1.1.3.1.1. Con: There are other tools than this, financial compensation could be envisioned instead of distribution
1.1.3.1.2. Con: Border states have been effective in raising the issue within the EU
1.1.3.2. Con: The EU is already split. A fair distribution system would help the member states to grow together again, to help each other out and fulfill their commitment to solidarity.
1.1.3.2.1. Con: Endless quarrels would be the result of a distribution system thus destroying more harmony than building it
1.1.3.2.2. Pro: The EU is split in questions on asylum.
1.1.3.2.2.1. Pro: Theres is no coherent asylum policy in the EU.
1.1.4. Con: The EU equals its members. Enforcing a decision on more than 1 or 2 will be close to impossible.
1.1.4.1. Pro: Consider how difficult it is to force one,  Greece, to make something it doesn't want.
1.1.4.2. Pro: Many members do not want to accept more refugees as of now. Something will have to force them to change their opinion
1.1.5. Con: There is no satisfying way of how to distribute mathematically
1.1.6. Con: Commanding people where they should live or seek refuge violates human rights and the self-determination to choose the place to live in.
1.1.6.1. Con: There is no right to self-determination to choose which country to live in for non-refugees either.
1.1.6.1.1. Pro: Passports and other legal measures confine nearly all citizens in this world to certain countries.
1.1.6.2. Con: However it is acceptable in this case, since it is in everyone's best interest.
1.1.6.3. Con: Once asyl is granted, the refugees will be free to move around inside EU.
1.1.6.4. Con: A refugee fleeing from war wouldn't mind living anywhere as long as it is safe.
1.1.7. Pro: The European idea, on which the EU is based on, demands for an equal distribution of burden.
1.1.7.1. Con: The burden of some problems, such as financial ones, are not divided equally within the EU.
1.1.7.1.1. Con: At least financial burdens are shared through the common currency. Migration does not have any common approach and this remains even more in the national field
1.1.7.2. Con: There is hardly any issue area where burdens are shared equally
1.1.7.3. Con: It is no European idea to share burden per se but to stick together in order to solve common problems.
1.1.7.4. Con: Equal distribution of burden should be matched by equal financial power to carry that burden and in this sense mostly Germany should take the refugees
1.1.7.4.1. Con: This can all be considered in the distribution system. There are other countries apart of Germany which could do more as well, like the UK for example.
1.1.7.5. Con: An overriding idea is democracy. And most people in the EU probably don't want more refugees in their countries
1.1.7.6. Con: The EU has a major democratic deficit and thus should not be allowed to burden anyone. Danger is that undemocratic interests will put this burden on the shoulders of the weak.
1.1.7.7. Con: If the EU is based on demands rather than concessions, there becomes little incentive to join and even less incentive to remain once a nation has achieved economically advanced status.
1.1.8. Con: The EU already has widespread dissent, enforcing quotas only further alienates many member states, reducing the legitimacy of the EU project.
1.1.9. Con: Distributing refugees is not a way of solving the cause of problem \(which is instability of the mothercountries of refugees\) - to solve situation means to create stable situation in refugees motherland and let them work and support to improve their situation in country of their origin.
1.2. The EU should apply its Temporary Protection [Directive 2001/55/EC](http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/en/TXT/?uri=celex:32001L0055) to all war refugees.
1.2.1. Con: The minimum protective measures spelled out in the directive are lower than national standards which makes the direction essentially useless as it becomes not applicable.
1.2.1.1. Pro: The directive spells out that preferential work placement should be given to EU citizens. Most national policies would not make this distinct on and rather say that once you are allowed to work there should be no discrimination
1.2.1.2. Pro: The directive does not spell out automatic social welfare benefits or access to housing but limits this to cases "if necessary".
1.2.2. Con: War refugees are already included in the wording 'mass influx'. The directive does not specify any reasons for refugees
1.2.3. Pro: That would have several advantages to current resettlement and admission programmes.
1.2.3.1. Pro: It would not require a status determination procedure \(other than to establish that the person was a member of the designated group\) as is normally necessary for refugee status, which would reduce the time and resources needed to process beneficiaries of protection. \([opendemocracy.net](https://www.opendemocracy.net/can-europe-make-it/cynthia-orchard-dawn-chatty/high-time-for-europe-to-offer-temporary-protection-to)\)
1.2.3.1.1. Con: It will be a long and difficult process to decide on temporary protection given the decision making process spelled out in the directive.
1.2.3.1.1.1. Pro: The involvement of qualified voting procedure in the Council typically needs quite some time. Smoother would be a Commission decision only
1.2.3.1.1.2. Pro: There is considerable difference what 'mass influx' constitutes. Italy claims this for years and would probably see it as unjustified that only Syrian refugees would be targeted.
1.2.3.2. Pro: The programme would be coordinated across Europe, promoting more equitable responsibility-sharing amongst European countries and the aim would be to process significantly higher numbers of people in need of protection, giving more people the refuge they so desperately need. \([opendemocracy.net](https://www.opendemocracy.net/can-europe-make-it/cynthia-orchard-dawn-chatty/high-time-for-europe-to-offer-temporary-protection-to)\)
1.2.3.3. Con: The involvement of UN organizations as specified in Art. 3 \(3\) will burden the administration with additional coordination effort
1.2.3.3.1. Pro: Sometimes, member states acting on their own are more influential, such as the decision by Merkel to accept the refugees from Hungary.
1.2.3.4. Con: It would serve as a relief for member states to act since any proposal for action has to come by the EU Commission
1.2.4. Pro: The spirit of the directive is a proto-refugee regime of the EU. It's further development will enhance cohesion of EU policies
1.2.5. Con: The ability to apply for asylum combined with the arbitrary distribution of refugees will create unfair results since asylum acceptance rates differ across the EU
1.2.6. Pro: War refugees are likely to enjoy only temporary protection as they flee armed conflicts
1.2.7. Con: The definition of 'war' is highly contested. It is better to regard any mass influx under this directive as it is. The specification was meant with war in mind but is broader also including natural disasters as reason.
1.2.8. Pro: The Directive applies not only to persons already in Europe, but also contains provisions which permit the entry of displaced persons into Europe. Under Article 2\(d\), the Directive can apply to a spontaneous movement of a large number of people from a particular country or region or an assisted evacuation into Europe; and under Article 8\(3\), states should facilitate the entry of eligible persons into their territory, including, for example, by the issuance of visas.
1.2.9. Pro: It may deter people from seeking asylum since member states are allowed to refuse that temporary protection is enjoyed at the same time as asylum seeker status.
1.3. Refugees should be allowed to file an application for asylum at all EU agencies abroad.
1.3.1. Con: When rejected they would still make their way to the EU.
1.3.1.1. Con: But they then can be rejected on arrival because their claim has already been rejected. This will eliminate the need for lengthy and costly stays in the EU.
1.3.1.2. Con: Improbable, as they already know they won't be allowed to stay.
1.3.1.3. Con: It is not an argument against allowing them to file an application from abroad. The idea is to reduce the risks of this happening. If they are allowed to make these applications abroad the risk of this happening will be reduced.
1.3.2. Con: It would be close to impossible to provide the social security that is provided while the application is checked
1.3.2.1. Con: There is no need to provide these safeties if people can apply from abroad.
1.3.3. Pro: The journey to Europe would be less dangerous for refugees, if they already have official papers that allow them to cross EU borders. They could for example take an airplane.
1.3.4. Pro: This would end the need to spend money on criminal people smugglers.
1.3.5. Pro: EU countries would also have better visibility on who each person is which would address security concerns.
1.3.6. Con: Applicants would be in danger during the application process, since the reason they're asking for asylum is the danger in their home country.
1.3.6.1. Con: If they are asking for asylum they are already in danger. Therefore, they are not becoming in more danger than they already were.
1.3.6.2. Con: The application process can be improved to accommodate some measure of privacy to prevent further risks.
1.3.7. Con: The fact that this will be allowed will give a free choice for the refugees to choose the target country. Reality has proven that they choose only specific countries either based on financial support or the proximity. Therefore, free choice is not necessary a right choice or safe choice.
1.4. The EU should establish safe camps in Libya, Tunisia and Egypt under European supervision and protection, from where all asylum seekers can make their applications.
1.4.1. Pro: Save camps with well working administration would cut out all the smugglers.
1.4.1.1. Con: Reality shows that refugee camps promote the smuggling, not cut it out. [irishtimes.com](https://www.irishtimes.com/news/world/europe/smugglers-profit-as-serbia-s-refugee-camps-reach-capacity-1.2921322) [humantraffickingcenter.org](http://humantraffickingcenter.org/refugee-camps-high-risks-human-trafficking/)
1.4.2. Con: It would be very risky to send social security payments they receive while waiting to autocratic governments. There is close to zero oversight over what they will do with the money, and this could open up a new source for illegal activities
1.4.2.1. Pro: Many locals without intent of escaping to Europe could use these camps for social security benefits they do not receive in their home countries.
1.4.2.2. Pro: Autocratic governments might cut back on domestic social security payments given the willingness of the EU to cover these costs partly
1.4.2.3. Con: The measure of risk is dependent on the organisation of the camps and negotiated agreements with the countries in question. Risk is measurable. The extent of the risk in the argument is subjective without that measurement. Evaluation strategies of project outcomes is an important part of devising a successfull solution. Every solution opens new sources of exploits. Unconfirmed plausibility of this is not a reason against it.
1.4.3. Con: Many countries would resist, arguing it would be a revival of colonial times
1.4.4. Pro: This would mean less administration effort in European countries as we wouldn't have to deport people anymore.
1.4.4.1. Con: This would be balanced by the costs necessary to run these camps and provide for social security on EU standards
1.4.4.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.2.1.
1.4.4.2. Con: Many, knowing the odds are against them, will still try the journey. For them there is no way back even if a camp in Northern Africa rejects them.
1.4.4.2.1. Con: This is not an argument against camps. Those who are rejected in camps and decide to try the journey are those who are rejected in Europe now. So in both cases, we have some people who are in a EU illegally. There may be a debate what to do with those, but that has nothing to do with camps in Africa.
1.4.4.2.2. Con: Camps would work as a filter of refugees. The amount of those who will try the journey will still be considerably reduced. Therefore, this is not an argument against camps.
1.4.5. Pro: Preventing an extremely dangerous journey to European grounds with smugglers could save a lot of lives.
1.4.5.1. Con: -> See 1.4.4.2.
1.4.6. Pro: Every Euro spent in maintainig camps in the region can effectively help more people than doing so in Europe.
1.4.7. Pro: Nearby camps in the region are usually more cost efficient and also make it easier for refugees to return home, as soon as the reason for fleeing ends to exist.
1.4.8. Con: There is no need for camps. Refugees can seek asylum at several embassies present in those countries.
1.4.8.1. Con: Refugees cannot really seek asylum at embassies in those countries. They may let them stay for a while, but refugees have to claim asylum within EU borders. \([de.wikipedia.org](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asylrecht_\(Deutschland\))\)
1.4.8.1.1. Con: Many countries won't allow their citizens to seek refuge in an embassy
1.4.8.1.1.1. Pro: In North Korea it would be close to impossible to apply for asylum in an European embassy even though it is likely it would be granted.
1.4.8.2. Con: With proper investment and security, camps can restore peace, safety, and even opportunity to rebuild for refugees who have been displaced.
1.4.8.3. Con: Embassies cannot accommodate the inflow of the refugees. They neither have the necessary space nor the necessary workforce to manage this.
1.4.8.4. Con: The priority of embassies is their country citizens. They cannot put the rights of the refugees above their citizens' rights.
1.4.9. Con: Libya, Tunisia and Egypt are not EU member states. Therefore, EU does not have a right to decide on the establishment of camps within their borders without their agreement and collaboration.
1.4.9.1. Con: Their collaboration can be gained by economic subsides or by economic contracts wich are more convenient for them.
1.4.10. Con: -> See 1.4.4.2.
1.4.11. Pro: This would make the journey easier and safer for women, children and elderly people.
1.5. The EU should pay border countries to keep the refugees in those countries rather than spreading them across Europe.
1.5.1. Con: Many EU countries are in need of the workforce that asylum seekers can provide.
1.5.1.1. Con: The need for workforce can be met with workers from other EU countries with high unemployment.
1.5.1.1.1. Pro: Tending to domestic unemployment first will encourage the participation of civic labors on part of existing citizens such as paying taxes and voting.
1.5.1.1.2. Pro: Female participation in the laborforce is often under the rate of males.
1.5.1.2. Con: An institutionalized workforce of refugees could lead to a degradation of social class perception to a greater degree.
1.5.1.3. Con: Even if that is true, pulling that workforce from a culture as foreign as that of the middle east and/or africa would be too costly.
1.5.1.4. Con: The kind of jobs that can be occupied by uneducated foreigners is going to be replaced by robots within a decade, which will create a large, unemployed, minority that is very hard to integrate if we take in asylum seekers in order to fill those positions.
1.5.2. Con: This is already happening and it has resulted in slave sales in Libia and human trafficking, specially of children, in Turkey. See [Libya](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/19/world/africa/libya-migrants-slavery.html) and [Turkey](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/24/world/europe/turkey-human-trafficking-refugee-crisis.html)
1.5.3. Con: This is just a way of avoiding problems in a way we have no control over it. This could backfire as problems may accumulate in the border countries.
1.5.4. Pro: Moving refugees thousands of kilometers for  temporary asylum makes the  whole process just more expensive.
1.6. Looking ahead, the EU should not only deal with the arriving refugees, but should do everything in their power in order to stop the reasons why refugees exist, such as the war in Syria.
1.6.1. Pro: Together with the UN a global peace strategy should be worked out. If conflicts and wars on the African continent can be stopped, there will be less refugees coming in the future.
1.6.2. Con: The EU shouldn't intervene in a civil war. Trying to stop it is also a form of intervention. Imagine someone had intervened in the american civil war. Slavery might still exist, just because some foreing power decided that peace is more important than abolishing slavery.
1.6.2.1. Con: If France hadn't intervened in the American war of independence, America might still be a colony. Intervention by the powerful is only harmful when motivated by self interest that stands against the interests of the populace in the target nation. Japan after WWII is another good example that was originally thought to be impractical because of cultural differences and the bitterness of the war; now they are one of the world's best economies and one of America's best allies.
1.6.3. Pro: What needs to be addressed better are the economic and political vacuums that are created during war which give rise to sectarian militias and civil war. Famine is also a big cause of civil and political unrest in Africa.
1.6.4. Pro: Development aid should be used to give receiving nations an incentive to make safe and sustainable camps for people in need.
1.6.5. Pro: Economical improvements, higher education to women and the entering of women into the workforce has seen women getting fewer children, as they tend to have children later due to education. They also tend to have fewer kids when working, because of the striving for career or money.
1.7. The EU should arrange for an equalization of asylum and social standards in all member states.
1.7.1. Pro: If in all EU member states the standards regarding accomodation and processing \(and depending on the living costs of each country, also social benefits\) were comparable, it would be easier to distribute the refugees equally.
1.7.1.1. Pro: One of the reasons why most of the refugees currently want to come to Northern Europe is, that countries such as Germany or Sweden offer way higher standards of asylum than countries such as Hungary or Greece.
1.7.1.1.1. Pro: An important verdict is "M.S.S." \(21.01.2011\) in which the European Court of Human Rights \(ECtHR\) decided, that some of the asylum standards in Greece were transgressing regulations of the European Convention on Human Rights \(ECHR\). \([hudoc.echr.coe.int](http://hudoc.echr.coe.int/app/conversion/pdf/?library=ECHR&id=001-103050&filename=001-103050.pdf&TID=nubefaxeep)\)
1.7.1.2. Pro: Equalization of asylum standards is the necessary precondition for a functioning EU-wide distribution system.
1.7.1.3. Con: Economies of more advanced countries would have to be intentionally slowed down and less advanced countries would have to be artificially brought up at their expanse.
1.7.1.3.1. Pro: Standards of living differ across EU countries for it's own citizens and citizens of less advanced countries would see it as unfair if refugees would be paid from their taxes higher standard than is their own while citizens from economically more advanced countries would see it as unnecessary low standard - thus only conclusion is to make economies equal.
1.7.2. Pro: It is not right, that refugees get treated differently regarding accomodation and processing, depending on which EU country they apply for asylum.
1.7.2.1. Con: Only sensible solution to this would be treat them according lowest standard of all countries
1.7.3. Con: The EU-Directive 2003/9/EG and the EU-Directive 2005/85/EG, defining minimum standards regarding accommodation and the procedure for grating the right of asylum, are sufficient.
1.7.3.1. Con: The standards regarding accommodation and processing still differ on an extensive level, this shows that the EU-Directives' minimum standards are insufficient.
1.7.3.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.7.1.1.1.
1.7.3.1.2. Con: There is no reason why minimum and applied standard should not differ. Minimum defines lowest possibility, each country should be free to apply more advanced features at their own  desires and costs.
1.7.4. Con: Sovereign countries should determine which people they will accept.  The supranational EU should not dictate terms
1.7.5. Pro: The EU should force unemployed EU citizens to volunteer at refugee hostels.
1.7.5.1. Pro: This would save money as the states wouldn't have to pay as many employees.
1.7.5.2. Pro: -> See 1.1.7.
1.7.5.3. Con: How do you 'force' someone to volunteer? Forced labor is generally called slavery and this is not acceptable in any civilized society
1.7.5.4. Con: The EU should create new jobs at refugee hostels. In the long run it makes much more sense that people work and can provide for the family and pay taxes than people doing work they are not qualified for just because it is cheaper.
1.7.5.5. Con: The EU ist working against forced labour in general. \([ec.europa.eu](http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?langId=de&catId=89&newsId=2186)\)
1.7.5.5.1. Con: Still, around 800.000 people are actually in forced labor in the EU. \([ilo.org](http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/\@europe/\@ro-geneva/\@ilo-brussels/documents/genericdocument/wcms_184976.pdf)\)
1.7.5.6. Con: Forced laborers are likely to deliver a poor quality of work
1.7.5.7. Con: A more practical solution in line with fundamental principles would be to encourage unemployed to engage in voluntary work, such as by providing a transparent scheme that connects those willing to those that need workers
1.7.5.8. Con: Volunteer organisations should retain control of who they recruit as volunteers, and how, in order to deliver sustainable services.
1.8. The EU should close down its borders and build defense facilities to prevent illegal immigration.
1.8.1. Con: Separations are fundamentally antithetical to freedom.
1.8.1.1. Con: Every \(natural or social\) organisation needs borders. Otherwise it would cease to exist. Eg, our welfare state would not be sustainable, if we would allow everyone who claims to be a refugee, to come and join.
1.8.1.1.1. Con: The financial cost of refugees on the UKs welfare system is [overstated](https://www.refugeecouncil.org.uk/policy_research/the_truth_about_asylum/facts_about_asylum_-_page_1)
1.8.1.1.2. Con: Over the long term \(20 years\), US refugees [pay more in taxes than they receive in benefits](http://www.nber.org/papers/w23498).
1.8.2. Pro: Investing in surveillance and defense is much cheaper than taking care of the refugees.
1.8.2.1. Pro: Advanced surveillance and defense industries could yield good trade profit in dealing with the US and China.
1.8.2.1.1. Con: This claim is vague and confusing. Is it saying that new industries should be created and that they would increase trade between the US and China? If so, where is the evidence for this?
1.8.2.2. Con: Our economy needs more foreign workers in the long run. Thus taking care of refugees now will be a good investment.
1.8.2.2.1. Con: It would be much more efficient and cheaper to recruit skilled workers from Second and not Third World countries that already have some higher education facilities in place.
1.8.2.2.1.1. Con: Many European countries especially need workers that are not so skilled. Skilled workers wouldn't apply for badly paid jobs in nursing homes or garbage disposal.
1.8.2.2.1.2. Pro: Literacy rates are higher and thus the ease with which to adept to a new workplace
1.8.2.2.1.3. Con: Second World is actually World's factory. It's fool to think that there are enough second world workers to satisfy our manpower request.
1.8.2.2.1.4. Con: This would mean to take away the skilled people from countries which have just worked themselves up on 2nd world-level. The result would be more third world countries again in the long-run.
1.8.2.2.1.5. Con: Our economy does not only need highly educated workers or academics. It needs workpersons in general.
1.8.2.2.1.5.1. Pro: This would make Germany more competitive as a production base as it would likely reduce wages.
1.8.2.2.1.5.2. Pro: Especially young refugees are highly motivated, durable and strong workmen.
1.8.2.3. Con: The annual expenses for refugees in Germany, e.g., come to 5-6 billion € \([zeit.de](http://www.zeit.de/politik/deutschland/2015-07/asylbewerber-einwanderung-kosten-bundeslaender)\)whereas the annual expenses for armament and defense comes to 46,5 billion € \([de.statista.com](http://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/157935/umfrage/laender-mit-den-hoechsten-militaerausgaben/)\).
1.8.2.3.1. Con: The entire [budget of the U.S. Border Patrol](http://www.cbp.gov/sites/default/files/documents/BP%20Budget%20History%201990-2014_0.pdf) is $3.6 billion. The EU could establish a comparable institution for similar cost.
1.8.2.3.1.1. Con: This money could be spent much better elsewhere.
1.8.2.3.1.1.1. Pro: On refugees.
1.8.2.3.1.1.2. Pro: To fight Greece's national debt.
1.8.2.3.1.1.3. Pro: On poverty in Europe.
1.8.2.3.1.1.3.1. Pro: Every fifth child in Germany is at risk of poverty.[zeit.de](http://www.zeit.de/gesellschaft/familie/2015-05/bertelsmann-studie-kinderarmut)
1.8.2.3.1.1.3.2. Pro: 25% of all Europeans are at risk of poverty.[euractiv.de](http://www.euractiv.de/sections/eu-innenpolitik/armut-europa-jeder-vierte-eu-buerger-ist-gefaehrdet-309789)
1.8.2.3.1.1.4. Pro: On the environment.
1.8.2.3.1.1.5. Pro: On education.
1.8.2.3.1.2. Con: the U.S. border patrol is not achieving its goal of keeping hispanics out of the U.S.  Furthermore, its tactics are extremely morally reproachful.
1.8.2.3.1.2.1. Pro: U.S. Immigration Control holding facilities are exempt from the standards of life which are federally instituted for civilian prisons.  These holding facilities are non-humane.
1.8.2.3.1.3. Con: The US spend much less in healthcare and education \(e.g. in Austria university is free\)
1.8.2.4. Pro: -> See 1.8.2.3.1.
1.8.3. Con: Not helping starving or prosecuted refugees is immoral.
1.8.3.1. Pro: With Immanuel Kant no state is allowed to repatriate a person who would be doomed in his country of origin.
1.8.3.2. Con: Jeopardizing your country's future by taking in millions of people completely incompatible with your country's culture is even more immoral.
1.8.3.3. Pro: Sending these people back into war and misery will grow already exiting hate towards the west. This would be terrible for our future.
1.8.4. Pro: Other countries do the same, e.g. the USA [heavily defend](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mexico%E2%80%93United_States_barrier) their Mexican Border.
1.8.4.1. Con: Only because the USA do something, doesn't mean Europe should do it, too, or think its the right thing to do!
1.8.4.2. Con: The defense of the Mexican Border is not doing any good at all.This problem should be dealt differently.
1.8.4.2.1. Pro: By legalising Mariuhuana or even cocaine the crime rates in Mexico as well as drug trafficking would decrease drastically, leading to less immigrants from Mexico. Plus the state could tax these drugs and would benefit from the former illegal commerce.
1.8.4.2.2. Pro: A different immigration policy by the U.S. government.
1.8.4.2.2.1. Pro: Short-term right of residence for the illegal immigrants already living in the country.
1.8.4.2.3. Pro: This money would better be spent on education in Mexico or the U.S., which creates more job opportunities in the long run.
1.8.4.3. Con: Due to it's lack of moral values the US should not serve as a rule in this matter.
1.8.4.3.1. Pro: A country that is executing capital punishment, operating secret prison camps and even using forms of torture is not a good example for the EU, in which all of these practices are forbidden. \([hrw.org](https://www.hrw.org/world-report/2015/country-chapters/united-states#3159b0)\)
1.8.4.3.2. Pro: The American asylum policy is just as immoral as the EU's.
1.8.4.4. Con: The "heavy defense" of the Mexican border is immoral and inhumane.
1.8.5. Con: Imaginary lines on a map is not a good enough reason to condemn people. "Disencourage" is not a word. Smuggling is an entirely separate discussion.
1.8.6. Pro: If migrants would understand that they risk attaining a legal residence title if they choose to cross the border illegally, smugglers would go out of business and a lot of fatalities could be prevented.
1.8.6.1. Con: Italy has stopped the central Mediterranean route. However, people have kept dying, both in the sea and in Lybia. This shows us that, for people who risk dying because of famine, dictature and wars, there's no obstacle high enough to stop them.
1.8.7. Con: Building military defense facilities would aggravate all issues we are currently facing with immigrants.
1.8.8. Pro: There are sufficient refugee problems within the borders of the EU already. Therefore a strict border rule will send a clear message for those willing to take risks that are not in the EU's interest on either the long or short term - or the risktaking refugees themselves.
1.8.9. Con: No barrier will be able to keep out efficiently people willing to risk their life crossing deserts and seas to reach Europe, and the cost of building and maintaining barriers will easily exceed the cost of rescuing and taking care of refugees
1.8.10. Con: This solution is inhuman and not practicable at the scale of Europe.
1.8.11. Pro: Australian way is the best one - detain the migrants off the EU borders and refuse the refugee status to anyone who illegally crossed EU borders.
1.8.11.1. Con: Australia is actually surrounded by the ocean, while the Mediterranean is much smaller.
1.8.11.2. Con: Australian position is immoral and cruel. People escape from famine, dictatures and wars.
1.8.12. Con: Even the Berlin Wall could not stop all refugees.
1.8.12.1. Pro: Thousands of people fled to West Germany. \([en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republikflucht)\)
1.8.12.2. Con: Not even close to being a valid analogy. The Berlin wall seperated 2 parts of the same country.
1.8.12.2.1. Con: It is a wall which people would like to cross. For which reason they want this is not important. Whether they want to cross it to see family, or to flee from their country.
1.8.12.3. Con: The Berlin Wall is in no way comparable to the obstacles today's refugees have to cross, including sea or long distance foot travel. Both of these are way harder to cross and way easier to monitor than a literal wall.
1.9. EU should create organized ways for refugees to stay in their country safely and work to improve their situation in motherland \(using existing organizations like UN\)
1.9.1. Pro: This would stop the brain drain in the long-run.
1.9.1.1. Con: "Brain drain" is about spending time, financial resources and workforce to accommodate that improvement, which have to be protected in the process. Creating, managing and promoting the organised ways to improve the situation in the motherland of refugees will not stop the "brain drain", but on the contrary, increase it indefinitely. No amount of "support" is known to change anything on the example of a multitude of previous conflicts in Africa and Middle-East. [accord.org.za](http://www.accord.org.za/ajcr-issues/%EF%BF%BCconflict-and-conflict-resolution-in-africa/)
1.9.2. Pro: Helping to overcome systemic problems \(regarding education, health human rights, etc.\) back in Africa is the key to solving the economic refugee problem in the long run.
1.9.2.1. Pro: This does not necessarily require large financial and workforce expenditures, as some of these problems can be resolved with diplomatic approaches as opposed to physical intervention.
1.9.3. Pro: If someone lives in a more or less working democracy there would be no urgent need to leave the country.
1.9.3.1. Con: Establishing democratic government does not prevent urgency to leave the country that is consumed by an internal conflict. Democratisation does not resolve them as African history confirms. [accord.org.za](http://www.accord.org.za/ajcr-issues/%EF%BF%BCconflict-and-conflict-resolution-in-africa/)
1.9.3.2. Con: Many modern western nations were just as dysfunctional in recent history. Stable democracies are possible with the right laws and institutions working.
1.9.4. Con: Empowering people in poor African countries is more of a long shot and does not solve the acute issues for several years if not decades.
1.9.4.1. Con: Empowering people requires stable institutions, and creating stable institutions usually empowers leaders or politicians. This has in the past often lead to the suppression of peoples rather than to their empowerment.
1.9.4.2. Con: Longshots can be considered a viable option if the long-term benefits outweight the short term cons.
1.9.4.3. Con: Empowering people in Africa and solving acute issues isn't mutually exclusive. Doing both now will save the EU lots of trouble in the future.
1.9.4.3.1. Con: With high growth rates in many African countries there will be no more reason to take the difficult journey to Europe.
1.9.4.3.1.1. Con: There will still be wars and political reasons for people to flee their home countries.
1.9.4.3.1.1.1. Con: But those are significantly less probably than those who flee for economic reasons
1.9.4.3.1.1.1.1. Pro: Since not all countries in Africa are dictatorships or in a war zone political refugees could stay there in a much easier and more promising way. The way to Europe in contrast is dangerous, far from their families and expensive. Purely political refugees would thus rather flee to a neighboring state, as in fact many do.
1.9.4.3.1.1.2. Con: Not all countries in Africa are dictatorships or in war. Many countries actually have a lovely environment, a vibrant cultural life and a thriving middle class enjoying civil rights
1.9.4.3.1.1.2.1. Pro: Like Botswana, Ethiopia and Ruanda.[welt.de](http://www.welt.de/debatte/kommentare/article131753751/Drei-Staaten-in-Afrika-die-es-richtig-machen.html)
1.9.4.3.2. Con: Doing both at the same time will require significant ressources. It is uncertain if European societies are willing to bear this burden. We should be happy if they accept the refugees coming in as citizens
1.9.4.3.3. Pro: More stable political situations in Africa will foster economic growth and thus trade. The economic benefits can be used to cope with social security payments.
1.9.4.4. Con: -> See 1.9.3.2.
1.9.5. Con: Building up a politically and especially economically stable system in the poor African countries will cost the EU money.
1.9.5.1. Con: Also economic refugees cost the EU money. The less there are coming, the less it costs. Thus it might be profitable for the EU investing in long-term solutions.
1.9.5.2. Con: Not building up a stable system in poor African countries might cost the EU even more in the future as the climate change will lead to even more economic refugees.
1.9.5.3. Con: If done properly, currently poor African countries could thrive and eventually become important trade partners in the future.
1.9.5.3.1. Pro: Under the Marshall Plan, the US did this with Germany, Japan, and their European allies as well as their former adversaries. This not only avoided the social unrest the Treaty of Versailles created with reparations after WWI, but it also made Japan and Germany into successful and peaceful world economic powers allied with the United States in the process.
1.9.5.4. Con: It also cost EU money to get involved in the conflict that preceded the refugee crisis, therefore, making EU ethically responsible to help. Goodwill will promote better diplomacy between North-Africa and EU. That would help find collaborative solutions where both sides benefit.
1.9.6. Con: While desirable, in the short-medium term this would give more people the necessary money needed to embark the journey towards Europe.
1.9.6.1. Con: If you improve the economic and social situation in their home countries, they will be less likely to want to leave as refugees in the first place.
1.9.7. Pro: The goal should be to stop refugee immigration, not to facilitate it.
1.9.8. Con: It's not a EU problem so the regions affected need to sort it out themselves.
1.9.8.1. Con: It becomes an EU problem when refugees flood the borders of EU countries. This claim is false because it is clearly already a EU problem.
1.9.8.2. Con: EU member states have had military involvement in the conflict that preceded the refugee crisis. Therefore, it is a EU problem as much as it is a problem of every country that involved their military resources in these conflicts.
1.10. The EU should create boarding procedure for refugees, where their activities inland are supervised and controlled \(with strict penalties such as sending back to origin country if a refugee wouldn't obey existing law and established social habits\). Such procedures should at the same time support cultural and social assimilation of refugees, ultimately granting them same rights as citizens.
1.10.1. Pro: controlling and supervising refugees new coming to society would help to prevent illigal activities including terrorism or crimes
1.10.1.1. Con: Control and supervision \(surveillance\) is likely to lead to intimidation and alienation, which is more likely to lead to radicalization [www.theguardian.com](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/sep/19/british-muslims-driven-to-extremism-alienated-at-home) . Treating people well and accepting them is more likley to lead to successful integration.
1.10.2. Pro: would help to asimilate refugees to society they joined making sure they understand existing habits and culture
1.10.3. Pro: would prevent separation and social exclusion of refugees
1.10.3.1. Con: After one person used a bar of soap there might be hair sticking to it.
1.10.4. Pro: would benefit society better as refugees can bring valuable skills which would otherwise be wasted
1.10.5. Con: Requiring immigrants to follow the code of law is indeed desirable but insisting that they follow social habits is stifling diversity and will not help with integration.
1.10.5.1. Con: Following the habits of society a migrant joins is not limiting the diversity but showing respect to values that are established and create good foundation for integration.
1.10.5.1.1. Con: Society progresses by adapting and changing to new impetuses; social mores change over time and by the influence of new forces. You can have respect for values but still strive to change values that no longer apply or are no longer fit for purpose. Preservation of 'values' purely for the sake of tradition is the stagnation of society.
1.10.5.1.1.1. Con: The issue of this argument is that it generalises all values as equally valid for the contemporary democratic society. Society stagnates due to new impetuses as much as it adapts to them. Democracy implies power of the majority. If the majority has values of inequality and authoritarian principles than the change will become dysfunctional and may destroy the society as we know it.
1.10.5.2. Con: The countries known to implement the education to follow local social norms are known to be the most culturally diverse. For example, The Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark. Even USSR was culturally diverse while it had universally enforced social norms.
1.10.5.3. Con: Compulsory education to help refugees understand the target country social norms and help them adapt is not the same as enforcing the social norms on them. Therefore, it does not restrict diversity or integration.
1.11. Everyone can't live in the same corner of the world. The entire First World, obviously including Europe, should legally purchase land in North Africa or in the Middle East and help build a new nation for refugees.
1.11.1. Con: Puchasing land does not make it a state on its own but merely land within a state.
1.11.2. Con: Purchasing massive amount of land can disrupt local economies because of the sudden increase in demand for land.
1.11.2.1. Pro: In any given area when the demand rises for land the price will go up as well because supply is fixed.
1.11.2.1.1. Con: In a sparsely populated area, payments to the few inhabitants who will be affected can be used to offset their increased cost of living, assuming they intend to stay in the newly formed nation.
1.11.2.2. Pro: Chinese buying land on the Korea island of [Jeju](http://m.koreatimes.co.kr/phone/news/view.jsp?req_newsidx=216747) has made it nearly impossible for local residents to own a house because of the steep price increase.
1.11.2.2.1. Con: The inhabitants of Jeju were not compensated to offset these new costs, it is not inevitable that this will always be the case.
1.11.2.2.2. Con: This is also an example of foreigners buying land within an intact nation without creating new borders. The parent claim you are responding to suggested buying land within an intact nation and then creating new borders so that the people living there would have their own state.
1.11.3. Con: People are living on fertile land. They might not consent to being incorporated in a new state.
1.11.4. Pro: Should these refugee states become highly  successful, their close proximity to family and friends in their old nations will generate a positive influence on the region. Neighboring peoples will see what can be accomplished in lands like their own, by people like themselves.
1.11.5. Con: Purchasing a land in Africa is revisiting the colonial times. Refugees are not interested in exchanging one problem for an older deep-sited one that exists for centuries. Colonisation is a most prominent reason of conflicts in the region.
1.11.6. Con: Nations where refugees are coming from can be helped without spending billions on a piece of an "uninhabited", "suffering poverty" land without infrastructure, requiring desalination, and in hopes that some day this piece of land with refugees "should become highly successful". There are too many "what ifs" in this claim without support by legal precedents of this happening successfully. The argument also assumes that there is a nation that is ready to sell it's own land.
1.11.7. Pro: They don't necessarily need to select fertile land. They can purchase dry, currently unproductive land, and use new Israeli desalination technology to irrigate it. Whatever is provided to the new state can, by contract, be matched for the state that sold the land. 

[www.scientificamerican.com](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/israel-proves-the-desalination-era-is-here/)
1.12. The EU should ensure a safe way to Europe for any refugees seeking asylum there.
1.12.1. Con: The EU cannot guarantee a global presence in Africa from South Africa all the way to Europe
1.12.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.3.
1.12.1.2. Con: There are other ways than "guarantee of global presence" to ensure a safe trip.
1.12.1.2.1. Pro: The EU should cancel the EU Directive 2001/51/EG, so refugees can come to Europe by planes, rather than taking the dangerous voyage via sea.
1.12.1.2.1.1. Pro: Travelling on planes is not only safer, but would also be cheaper for the refugees. \([youtube.com](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YO0IRsfrPQ4)\)
1.12.1.2.1.2. Con: The Directive specificly does not apply "in cases where a third country national seeks international protection" \(Art. 4/2\). But in practice the carriers \(flight and ship companies\) are now in the role of border control because they are fearing high penalties. [Council Directive 2001/51/EC of 28 June 2001](http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX:32001L0051&from=NL)
On every relevant harbor / airport we should install an Asylum Office which gives out visa-like certifications of "seeking international protection" to end this confusion.
1.12.1.2.1.3. Con: This will promote terrorism and plane attacks as the extremists will have the same access to the planes under a cover of asylum seekers. This claim puts safety of refugees above the safety of the nations.
1.12.2. Con: This would be very expensive and societies should not be forced to pay for the failure of other societies to make a livable society.
1.12.2.1. Con: In our globalised day and age, it is hard to speak of "the failure of other societies". The fates of most of our countries are interwoven, due to political, economic and cultural connections. And especially the exploitation of third world countries in the past by industrialised states, would justify to chip in on the costs on their part.
1.12.3. Pro: -> See 1.12.1.2.1.
1.12.4. Pro: This would also resolve the issues of registration, as refugees could be registered before or on the journey.
1.12.5. Pro: This would make it easier to distribute the refugees between the EU-member states \(once a distribution system will be implemented\).
1.12.6. Con: Offering a safe path would only aggravate the issue, as many more people will take the chance to immigrate to the EU.
1.12.6.1. Con: Refugees undertake their life-threatening voyage not because chances are provided to them, but because they cannot stay where they are. So ferries would only help make the journey safer and not encourage people to leave, if they are not threatened.
1.12.6.2. Con: The publicly visible huge amount of refugees would apply extra pressure on the EU to help stabilizing the poor African countries.
1.12.6.2.1. Pro: If the EU would have to send ferries to collect them all there would be no more way for the EU to let these people die on their way. Thus the number of asylum seekers would probably be high enough for the EU to put more effort in stabilizing the refugees' countries of origin.
1.12.6.2.2. Pro: This may reduce the huge amount of refugees in the long-run.
1.12.7. Pro: This would instantly cut off the smugglers' business.
1.12.8. Pro: -> See 1.12.6.2.
1.12.9. Pro: This would make it possible to administer exact statistics of how many refugees are coming.
1.12.10. Con: Depriving these countries of their most mobile and able people hurts their development and entrenches their present state.
1.12.11. Con: EU is not obliged to accommodate all refugees seeking asylum.
1.12.12. Con: There are no countries in the world that have an established system of financial budget for ensuring a safe way for those who seek refuge in these countries. It is a responsibility of asylum seeker.
1.12.13. Con: EU states must not stagnate their economy and safety by the inflow of refugees seeking asylum, otherwise this will defeat the purpose. It will destabilise EU states and they will not be able to help anyone.
1.12.14. Pro: Minding human dignity means to make sure that no single person searching for shelter dies in front of the borders \(or even in the EU\) if it is possible to save this person.
1.12.14.1. Pro: No refugee from Africa would have to die anymore trying to reach the EU on the sea route.
1.12.14.2. Con: "Minding human dignity" is also ensuring that no citizens & taxpayers of the target country should suffer from those "searching for shelter" if it is possible to limit the inflow through other means.
1.12.14.3. Con: It is improbable to "make sure that no single person searching for shelter dies in front of the borders". The whole idea of the refugee crisis is that the inflow became a large-scale problem and countries are unable to save every person.
1.13. The Member States of the European Union must live up to their obligation under Article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and provide refugees coming from Africa and the Middle east with an opportunity to seek asylum from persecution.
1.13.1. Con: EU does not hold sole responsibility for the refugee crisis. Only few specific member states do. Member states involved in the conflict that preceded the refugee crisis should have more obligation than those who were not.
1.13.2. Pro: With a shared responsibility the burden of the Syrian refuge crisis would have been only a medium strain for Europe.
1.14. The EU should call for an International Joint Commission with the goal to enforce a worldwide distribution system to accommodate asylum seekers.
1.14.1. Con: States are not interested in creating a Joint Comission.
1.14.1.1. Con: Institutions like the U.N. exist, which shows that states are interested in a Joint Force.
1.14.2. Con: This is close to impossible given IOs inability to verify domestic compliance on a citizen level.
1.14.3. Pro: Global solutions for global problems are more likely to be successful
1.14.4. Con: If a global solution is sought it should tackle the source of the problem \(why they flee\) not the symptom.
1.14.4.1. Pro: Since global agreement is difficult to reach the energy should be used to find sustainable solutions
1.14.4.2. Con: A global solution should be able to find a compromise between short term and long term solutions just as most other international agreements include
1.14.4.2.1. Pro: The inclusion of both short and long term objectives enhances the chance to find compromises since possible trade-offs are more likely.
1.14.4.3. Con: Re-establishing peace in the affected areas will take much more time than the countries affected by mass migrations or the refugees themselves can tolerate.
1.14.4.4. Con: This can be done in addition and isn't excluded by helping those refugees who exist now.
1.14.5. Pro: Countries like UAE or Qatar are rich enough to pay for many refugees. \([handelszeitung.ch](http://www.handelszeitung.ch/bildergalerie/das-sind-die-reichsten-laender-der-welt)\)
1.14.5.1. Pro: Saudi-Arabia is much closer to Syria than the EU. And it has a lot of money and is not taking in one single refugee.
1.14.5.1.1. Con: Just because Saudi-Arabia is an Arabic country as well as Syria etc., the cultural difference is so big, that Saudi-Arabia would not be the obvious place to escape to.
1.14.6. Con: The costs of a distribution system would be pretty high.
1.14.6.1. Con: In the long term the costs of not having a distribution system would even be higher for certain states.
1.14.7. Pro: Most refugees come from current / former war zones \(such as Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Ethiopia, Somalia, etc.\) where the US, it's Western allies and other countries around the world were somehow involved. Thus we have to handle the current situation as a global collective.
1.14.7.1. Con: A  coalition of the EU and the US is neither a global collective nor aname international joint commission
1.14.7.2. Con: Most involvement dates back more than 100 years. There is a date when responsibility stops
1.14.7.2.1. Pro: European countries payed enough in development aid
1.14.7.2.2. Con: German brands are selling weapons to the whole world, in case of a war, Germany is partly responsible now as well.
1.14.7.3. Pro: China is equally prominently involved in Africa and through its policies even supports dictators and thus the source of problems. They have to be an equal part of the solution.
1.14.8. Pro: No one country should take all the responsibility of taking in and helping refugees.
1.14.9. Pro: Once created it should lead to better decisions and faster solutions.
1.14.10. Pro: It is not fair and also impossible for the EU to solve the refugee problem on it's own. The rest of the world has to engage in the process as well.
1.14.10.1. Con: The EU would be able to solve the refugee problem on it's own, if it would take it's responsibility seriously. A fair distribution would be helpful and not having Germany do all the work on it's own.
1.14.10.1.1. Con: It's only very recently that Germany has started to participate in the distribution either. The countries having most of the work so far are countries such as Italy, Greece, etc.
1.14.10.2. Con: Many countries have issues with refugees and immigration. Many of those have their own solution which does not necessarily comply with EU standards. Still, the "rest of the world" actually does engage in this process.
1.14.10.2.1. Pro: The numbers show that European countries rank amongst the ones with far less refugees than others.[en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_refugee_population)
1.14.11. Pro: There are many countries outside the EU that have huge amounts of space to take in refugees, e.g. the US, Canada and Russia.
1.14.11.1. Pro: Measured in population density Europe is not really having much space
1.14.11.2. Con: Refugees are more a matter of financial burden rather than geographical space.
1.14.12. Con: Politically it would be extremely difficult to convince non-EU countries to take in refugees they see as the EU's own problem.
1.14.12.1. Con: Australia will accept an extra 12,000 Syrian and Iraqi refugees, in addition to Australia’s existing 13,750 humanitarian intake. \([theguardian.com](http://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2015/sep/09/australia-to-accept-an-extra-12000-syrian-refugees-and-will-join-us-led-air-strikes)\)
1.14.12.2. Con: Brasil is far off the Middle East and they are taking in refugees as well. \([theguardian.com](http://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/mar/11/syrians-refuge-brazil-latin-america-war-refugees)\)
1.14.12.2.1. Pro: Considering that Brazil is not a rich nation, there is no economical excuse that wealthier countries shouldn't help.
1.14.12.3. Con: It would not be so hard. The EU \(and the USA\) has a lot of influence over other countries, normally more poor. With the right incentives, countries like Brazil would accept refugees.
1.14.12.4. Con: Non-EU countries may see it as an "EU problem", but in fact the refugees aren't just the EU's problem. So the rest of the world cannot look away for ever, but will eventually have to engage as well.
1.14.12.4.1. Con: Problems are created once costs are involved.  As long as non-EU countries do not bear any costs they will not see it as problem, whatever our western ethic may say
1.14.12.4.2. Pro: -> See 1.14.7.
1.14.12.5. Con: The US want to accommodate 10 000 Syrian refugees within the next 12 months. \([spiegel.de](http://www.spiegel.de/politik/ausland/syrien-usa-wollen-10-000-fluechtlinge-aufnehmen-a-1049643.html)\)
1.14.12.5.1. Con: 10 000 refugees are not particularly much when you consider the numbers Munich is accepting and consider that the US praises itself as a country of immigrants.
1.14.13. Pro: Especially the US should accommodate asylum seekers from Syria because the Americans bear a lot of the blame of the Syrian civil war and the IS.
1.14.13.1. Con: Europe bears probably the most responsibility in Africa and the Middle East since the source of many problems can be found in European colonisation and the export of its value system.
1.14.13.2. Con: The US didn't do very much in Syria. Critiques would highlight it was to few but the US was bound by the UN
1.14.13.3. Pro: Despite the US having a special historical responsibility for many countries in the Near/Middle East, they should take in refugees simply because they also have the resources to do so.
1.14.13.3.1. Con: The U.S. has a lot of problems itself such as poverty, especially when it comes to children. \([nccp.org](http://www.nccp.org/topics/childpoverty.html)\) Other countries like Canada would fit much better.
1.15. A developed country should forcefully recolonize South Sudan in order to establish rule of law so that the country’s citizens can help themselves in a just society.
1.15.1. Pro: Migrants in Europe already give up sovereignty. Here they stay in their own country whilst having to abide by new laws imposed by another country.
1.15.2. Pro: South Sudan has vast natural resources such as oil and gas which could be used for the benefit of its population.
1.15.3. Pro: It would cost less for Europe to recolonize S Sudan than to integrate refugees.
1.15.3.1. Con: The Iraw war cost the US at least [$1.1 trillion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Financial_cost_of_the_Iraq_War). Even if a military occupation of South Sudan would cost only a fraction of this, it would still be very expensive.
1.15.4. Con: Public image of colonizing country may be negatively affected at first.
1.15.5. Con: Colonizer may have to act against established UN rules in order to colonize by force if necessary
1.15.6. Con: Colonizers soldiers may be in danger, although I recommend using mercenaries from another African country.
1.15.7. Pro: This would also permit development funds to be spent correctly instead of wasted by war and corruption.
1.16. The EU has a moral obligation to accept as many refugees as it can.
1.16.1. Pro: European countries caused African turmoil in the first place during the 'Scramble for Africa', and the US started countless Middle Eastern wars by annexing the land of Israel, separating countless Palestinian families, never to see their relatives again.
1.16.1.1. Con: The Israeli / Palestinian conflict does not create refugees that are relevant to this discussion because refugees resulting from that conflict arriving in EU are negligible.
1.16.1.2. Con: Land of Palestine belonged to the British, the British wish no longer to be part of the EU.
1.16.2. Con: The European Union only has obligations to its citizens, not to citizens of other countries, except under international law.
1.16.2.1. Con: If EU citizens demand policies that contravene international law regarding refugees, then the EU has no obligation to implement those policies.
1.17. Stop proxy wars and regime changes via violent means and help to rebuild the areas effected by wars. Demand for all countries to obey the international laws.