Discussion Title: How can education in the United States be improved?

1. How can education in the United States be improved?
1.1. Add Board Certified Behavioral Analysts \(BCBAs\) as consultants and/or members of the District Behavior Team ti assist with managing difficult behaviors in the classroom, training, and providing feedback to teachers and other implementars so they may develop new and effective skills to their repertoire as needed.
1.2. Add Registered Behavioral Technicians \(RBT\) to support teachers/schools with data collection. Again, potentially on a contract basis to minimize cost.
1.3. Increase provision of mental health services as an on-campus After-School Program to increase accessibility, minimize loss of instruction time, and potentially increase acquisition of services by those who need them. \(See Dallas ISD program\).
1.3.1. Pro: After-school-program mental health services means practitioners providing services to the student with more insight into student needs due to collaborating with the student family and school staff \(teachers, counselor, etc.\)
1.3.2. Pro: After-school-program mental health services mean the practitioners can provide services to the student and family due no dual relationship concerns.
1.3.3. Pro: After-school-program mental health services would be specialized services specific to the community’s needs.
1.3.4. Pro: After-school-mental health services mean providers are specialized in practicing with children and families receiving feedback from stakeholders on effectiveness.
1.3.5. Pro: After-school-program mental health services would be collaborating on financing/reimbursement so that mental health services could be provided at low or no cost to families and students.
1.3.6. Pro: Providing after-school-mental health services can be tied to an MTSS model to maximize needs met at the level needed by the student maximizing efficiency and resources.
1.3.7. Pro: Providing mental health services in an after-school-program and implementing an MTSS model of service delivery means measuring fidelity and progress monitoring, hence accountability for effective intervention and students’ needs being met.
1.3.7.1. Con: The impact that an MTSS system can have is [still being studied](https://ies.ed.gov/ncee/projects/evaluation/disabilities_MTSSB.asp), there might be better systems out there.
1.3.8. Pro: Providing mental health services as an after-school-program provides an alternative setting for MDR outcomes to provide needed skills while continuing to receive services.
1.3.9. Con: Students who are in MDR will have needs beyond those an after-school-program mental health services model could address.
1.3.10. Con: Although MTSS purports to measure fidelity and monitor progress, it does not provide a diagnosis, nor does it ensure timely and effective treatment.
1.4. Include mandatory education regarding personal finance and citizenship.
1.4.1. Pro: Including lessons or classes on these subjects could better equip students to be more self-sufficient.
1.4.2. Pro: Students would be better equipped to make political decisions, such as voting or making campaign contributions.
1.4.2.1. Con: they would be teached by a biased teacher who'd indirectly or directly incite them to vote for their prefered party.
1.4.2.1.1. Con: This risk is easily guarded against in a public education system.
1.4.2.1.1.1. Pro: Restriction can be put in place to deter teachers from reaching too far into stating their personal political preferences.
1.4.2.1.2. Con: While teachers may prefer a particular party a policy, that does not necessitate the presumption that they will incite students to follow them in that preference.
1.5. Limiting the use of smart phones in the classroom setting can go a long way to improving student engagement, prevent cheating and improve the student/teacher relationship.
1.5.1. Pro: Builds better teacher\>student relationship
1.5.2. Con: Students not having their phone readily accessible could make them harder to reach by parents etc
1.5.3. Pro: Less cheating can take place
1.5.4. Con: Learning apps couldn't be used in the classroom
1.5.5. Pro: Colleges and companies are using social media already using them and the trend is going to increase. As educators we need to model the proper behavior for our students on how and when we use the phones and social media. The consequences for misuse become more severe as they grow older. Phones can be used in a powerful way to increase engagement and learning. [nea.org](http://www.nea.org/tools/56274.htm)
1.5.6. Con: In this new age of technology, we must embrace these tools and use them to our advantages. The advancement of technology is never going to slow down, and neither should our education, or our proactive adaptation of technology.
1.6. Add universal SEL screening to provide Tiered services to those who need it when they need it. Identify students early and provide the required intervention early.
1.6.1. Pro: Overall classroom time engaged increases with fewer behavioral problems.
1.6.2. Pro: Classroom is more likely to be a positive, safe, and supportive learning environment.
1.6.3. Pro: When students receive intervention early and as needed, their mental health is maximized resulting in campuses of students with needed social and emotional learning skills decreasing the potential for marginalized, victimized, or stigmatized students.
1.6.4. Pro: Campuses of students with coping and problem-solving skills make for safer and more productive places for learning.
1.6.5. Con: Adding BCBAs will mean increasing the cost of education, potentially affecting salaries of teachers and paraprofessionals.
1.6.6. Con: Adding RBTs to school district services would increase cost of education potentially affecting teacher and paraprofessional salaries.
1.6.7. Con: Having needed social skills does not mean students will use them resulting in the same behavior problems they would have had without.
1.6.8. Con: SEL and mental health services are not magic bullets. Students who struggle emotionally and behaviorally will continue to have behavioral problems.
1.6.9. Con: SEL and mental health services are not magic bullets. Students who struggle emotionally and behaviorally will continue to have academic  problems.
1.6.10. Con: Students’ capacity to learn will not be improved to the extent of diminishing the need for academic resources to address learning difficulties.
1.6.11. Con: Because having social and problem solving skills does not ensure students will use them, the savings to learning time will be negated.
1.6.12. Con: Because teachers continue having behavioral problems at close to the same level, they do not save time or resources that could be devoted to planning and delivering more meaningful lessons.
1.6.13. Con: There are no clear standards for SEL.
1.6.13.1. Con: The [Common Core Standards](https://www.edutopia.org/blog/tools-assess-sel-in-schools-susanne-a-denham) are adopted by 42 states.
1.6.13.2. Pro: The 2012 [NRC](https://www.edutopia.org/blog/tools-assess-sel-in-schools-susanne-a-denham) diverts from the Common Core Standards,
1.6.14. Pro: Increases Student's capacity to learn when they have the social skills to interact meaningfully with peers.
1.6.15. Pro: Increase student learning by meeting their mental health needs as needed.
1.6.16. Pro: Long-term savings of instructional time and campus resources as a result of fewer behavioral problems.
1.6.17. Pro: Long-term savings of instructional time and campus resources as a result of fewer academic problems.
1.6.18. Pro: Teacher’s preparation time may be more centered on planning and executing meaningful and relevant lessons.
1.7. Remove all leftist teachers and professors from the institutions. That is the #1 thing you can do to drastically improve education.
1.7.1. Con: Removing all teachers of either the left or the right inherently leaves a political imbalance in schools.
1.7.2. Con: To truly educate someone, they need to be exposed to many perspectives and ways of looking at the world. A big part of education is self discovery and acceptance of ideas that resonate within.
1.7.3. Con: Removing teachers for being leftist violates essential freedoms.