Discussion Title: How Much Say Should a Father Have With Abortion?

1. A pregnant woman must carry the baby to term if the father insists.
1.1. Pro: Every man has the right to be a dad if he considers himself prepared.
1.1.1. Con: There is no right to have children. If a man wants a child they can adopt or find a consenting partner.
1.1.2. Con: A right to fatherhood fundamentally contradicts other established rights like the right to one's bodily autonomy.
1.1.3. Con: It would be beneficial for children if men had to get a second opinion before being allowed to become a father.
1.2. Con: Forcing a woman to bear children against her will demonstrates a lack of empathy towards others, so people who do that are unlikely to make good parents.
1.2.1. Con: Killing a foetus is not in the best intentions of the foetus and demonstrates a lack of empathy towards human life. People who kill unborn babies are unlikely to make good parents.
1.2.1.1. Con: If the woman who wants to have the abortion is unlikely to be a good parent, to be born without a good mother also goes against the baby's interest.
1.2.1.2. Con: People who have abortions are by definition not parents, so it doesn't matter if they would have been good or bad parents.
1.2.1.3. Con: Respect for human life does not simply mean creating as many humans as possible. It also should involve some consideration for the quality of life. Sometimes to preserve one, the other must be sacrificed. it is unclear why quality of life must always be sacrificed in favour of quantity.
1.3. Pro: The human tissue that lives inside the woman's body is a mix of both the man and woman's genetic material, so they should decide the future of the baby together.
1.3.1. Con: If the amount of genetic material from each parent is the determining factor than a man and a woman have equal say. If one opposes and the other approves then there must be a way to break the tie. Since the woman's body is more affected than the man's it makes sense that the woman should be able to cast the deciding vote.
1.3.2. Pro: Once the unborn child has been created, it is the dual responsibility of both parents and they have an equal say in the child's future.
1.3.2.1. Con: This gets us nowhere since, within the parameters of this debate, the parents have opposing viewpoints.
1.4. Pro: The human tissue inside the mother is not her body, is an independent body that is under creation so the woman can decide over her body but not over the baby's body.
1.4.1. Con: The woman can deny the tissue the resources from her body, which the tissue has no right to.
1.4.2. Con: Unless it can survive on its own outside the mother then it is not an independent body, merely an appendage of the mother.
1.4.3. Con: This verges into a broader discussion of whether abortion is ever permissible, which is debatable, without answering whether the man or woman should have a stronger voice.
1.5. Pro: If the father can give the child a good lifestyle - a certain future, loving father, good education - it goes against the human right to live and is morally wrong.
1.5.1. Con: All people have the right to live. But if someone is physically inside you against your will you also have the right to self-defence even if doing so might cause death.
1.5.2. Con: Hypothetical scenarios should not take precedence over established facts.
1.6. Con: The woman has the right to decide because is her body.
1.6.1. Pro: The woman goes through the pain of giving birth.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Pregnancy and birth mean women face a [plethora](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/13698575.2013.876191) of dangers.
1.6.2. Pro: Having a child disproportionately affects a woman's life more than a man's.
1.6.2.1. Pro: Mothers face a [higher risk of poverty](https://phys.org/news/2015-08-mothers-poverty-fathers.html), unemployment, and lower income regardless of education level.
1.7. Con: Doing this is against the woman's will, so you are forcing her to do something she doesn't want. This is morally reprehensible.
1.8. Con: The human tissue developing inside her body depends on the mother, so she has the right to stop the dependence if she wants.
1.8.1. Pro: It would be morally reprehensible if people were obligated to share their bodily resources with others for any reason. We do not force people to donate blood. Likewise women should not be forced to supply nutrients to someone else against their will.
1.8.2. Con: If the mother was irresponsible enough to not use adequate protection or take precautions, then she has to understand the repercussions: she has a dependent being attached to her.
1.8.2.1. Con: There is no reason the repercussion should be birth. Having an abortion is a repercussion.
1.8.2.2. Con: You don't lose body autonomy for making a mistake. We don't, for example, require drunk drivers to donate blood or organs to people they may have harmed.
1.8.2.3. Con: Some studies place [around half](https://www.guttmacher.org/news-release/2018/about-half-us-abortion-patients-report-using-contraception-month-they-became) of all pregnancies happen while using contraception. Getting pregnant does not indicate they did not take precautions.
1.9. Con: This decision can affect a woman's education if she is forced to carry the pregnancy to term.
1.9.1. Pro: If the woman's life is going to be seriously upended by a pregnancy, there should be no compulsion to continue the pregnancy to term.