Discussion Title: Humans should not procreate.

1. Humans should not procreate.
1.1. Pro: Child rearing is stressful and expensive.
1.1.1. Pro: If a person has no children they have more time and energy to spend on their own career or vision be it creative or entrepreneurial or just survival.
1.1.2. Con: Many people find child rearing to be the most meaningful and rewarding experience in their life.
1.1.2.1. Con: Once the child is conceived, the choice remains between not making a meaningful life out of it or making a meaningful life of it. One makes the experience meaningful and rewarding because one is necessarily stuck with it, and we have the power to make meaning out of any circumstance.
1.1.3. Con: Very many things worth doing are stressful and expensive. Examples include marriage, travelling the world, running a charity, etc.
1.2. Con: Procreation is in our nature.
1.2.1. Con: Because procreation is in our nature, it doesn't automatically make it ethical, economical or a source of happiness for every one involved.
1.2.1.1. Pro: Just because something is natural or instinctive, it doesn't mean that it's the best way to go. As humans we constantly go against our nature in order to comply with our laws and norms in order to build a civilization.
1.2.2. Con: While a desire for sex may be in our nature, procreation is not.
1.2.2.1. Con: Many people do feel a desire to become a parent, that cannot be fully reduced to or substituted with a desire for sex and a desire to care for young.
1.2.2.2. Con: Procreation is the only natural, in at very least the sense of "biological," reason that sex exists.
1.2.3. Pro: Humans recognise a desire and need to continue the human race, which occurs through procreation.
1.2.3.1. Con: Humans do not universally recognise such a desire or need, as the mere fact that this debate exists shows.
1.2.4. Pro: It is natural to want to pass on our genes and continue our family line.
1.2.4.1. Con: This does not mean that acting on this desire is good.
1.2.5. Con: If one accepts procreation as a natural feature of human biological influence, and on those grounds argues for its intrinsic value, it follows that in any action founded in natural human tendencies has also pure ethical value. However, from this, intrinsic 'value' would also extend to things such as adultery; as one could reference evolutionary biology in suggesting that naturally, humans are deterred from monogamous relationships in favour of extensively spreading their genetic information.
1.3. Pro: Procreation comes with great risks for the mother.
1.3.1. Pro: Many women have difficult pregnancies and births, which can involve a great deal of physical pain and may result in further suffering, such as with post-natal depression.
1.3.2. Con: People have the right to choose to accept risks.
1.3.3. Con: Many actions come with great risks, and yet we do not say that we should forego all of those actions. For context, [one of every 5,600](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/has-maternal-mortality-really-doubled-in-the-u-s/) \(100k / 17.8\) American mothers dies in childbirth.
1.3.4. Pro: The mother has all the right to value her own life over that of the child's, since the consequence of doing so doesn't harm anyone that exists. The contrary, however, does harm an existing person, namely that of the mother. A potential life has no moral right over an actual life.
1.4. Pro: Procreating is selfish.
1.4.1. Pro: Procreating is the equivalent of claiming that your genes are special and you want to raise a child that has your genes and not adopt one.
1.4.1.1. Pro: Given how many children live in orphanages, without loving parents, there is little reason to have your own children now, since you can fulfil a desire to raise children other ways.
1.4.1.2. Con: There is no moral imperative to adopt. Just as there is no moral imperative to solve global climate change with one's own individual action. Orphaned children are a large-scale societal problem and such social problems are for society to resolve.
1.4.1.3. Con: Do not assume that raising one's own child requires equivalent capacities as for adopting an orphan nor assume that every prospective parent has equivalent capacities. The requirements of adoption can exceed the capacities of the prospective parent while the requirements for procreation may reside within the capacity of prospective parents.
1.4.2. Pro: Suffering is an intrinsic part of life. Choosing to procreate brings about suffering.
1.4.2.1. Pro: There is a considerable risk that the child will suffer incurable diseases.
1.4.2.1.1. Con: There's an even more considerable chance that the child will not suffer from these incurable diseases.
1.4.2.1.1.1. Pro: Incurable diseases are a rarity and will only grow rarer as time goes by.
1.4.2.1.2. Con: Almost all meaningful action carries great risk. What matters more is the proportion of the meaningful worth of the action to the risk involved. The meaningful worth of human life outweighs all possible risks to human life.
1.4.2.1.3. Con: Many people who have incurable diseases do not wish they had not been born.
1.4.2.2. Pro: According to negative utilitarianism, it is not enough to balance pleasure and pain, because minimization of pain holds priority over the maximization of pleasure. From this it follows that if not procreating is the most effective way to minimize suffering, then that is our moral obligation.
1.4.2.3. Con: Life is not only suffering, but can also be full of great pleasure.
1.4.2.3.1. Pro: Life is not suffering. Suffering is a part of life, but so is love and happiness. And for many people they are much larger parts. Just because you're bad at life doesn't mean the opportunity of it should be denied to others who in all likeliness will be better.
1.4.2.3.2. Pro: If life was such suffering as to not be worth living, any rational population would chose suicide. People are animals, but even the greatest minds we value have clearly not chosen this option, at least not at first, as we have been given a chance to value them. Same with anyone reading this.
1.4.2.3.2.1. Pro: Suicides aren't excessively common within the population, and aren't exclusively limited to those with the highest IQ, so there is little evidence that the most rational do so.
1.4.2.3.2.2. Con: Even the greatest minds are not necessarily rational. Acknowledging the extent of one's own irrationality is often seen as a hallmark of a great mind, as per Socrates being quoted as saying "I know only that I know nothing".
1.4.2.3.2.3. Con: Suicide is so heavily stigmatised that admitting you want to kill yourself can get you locked up, so it is not necessarily true that "anyone reading this" has not committed suicide out of their own free choice to keep living.
1.4.2.3.3. Con: -> See 1.4.2.2.
1.4.2.4. Con: Humans habituate to bad circumstances very rapidly and thereby reduce/eliminate their suffering.
1.4.2.5. Con: Not procreating would also cause suffering as we currently lack the technological means to sustain our material needs in the face of an aging population.
1.4.2.5.1. Con: Maintaining population growth on this basis alone is the logic of a pyramid scheme.
1.4.2.6. Con: Using the metric of prevention of suffering alone leads to repugnant conclusions like a preference for painlessly killing all conscious creatures instantly.
1.4.3. Pro: Procreation is imposing life on another being, that didn't ask for it.
1.4.3.1. Pro: No one loves having an atrocity committed unto themselves. What is done to a helpless being without its consent causes resentment and anger. Regardless, society is very sticky about consent. No one has the choice to do to another anything without the other's consent.
1.4.3.1.1. Con: Most people do not in fact regret or resent their births.
1.4.3.1.1.1. Con: Evolution made sure that we don't resent our birth. Most chickens crammed in their farm cage will show great self preservation instincts, they'll 'want' to live, but it doesn't mean their life is worth living. You will see African kids with their members amputated and parents killed in their presence, after a while you will see them with a smile on their face, most won't resent their birth.
1.4.3.1.1.1.1. Con: This concedes the point since it admits that most people do not in fact experience anger and resentment at their birthing, which was the point as opposed to the existence of human suffering.
1.4.3.2. Con: You can't impose something on someone that doesn't exit. Since the being isn't alive he can't either want or reject it. It's safe to assume that he wants it because the vast majority of people want life, and if he doesn't, he can always kill himself. The other way around doesn't exist, since a person cant will himself into existence.
1.4.3.3. Con: It is impossible for a human to ask for life without first having it. Before life, there is no preference to be had on the condition of life.
1.4.3.4. Con: Consent is not the absolute standard of morality. Certain things, both good and ill, may be legitimately imposed on other people in certain circumstances.
1.4.4. Pro: Many people bring children into the world when they are not actually equipped with the resources to offer those children good lives.
1.4.5. Con: It is not selfish to bring other humans into the world in order to provide for them and raise them.
1.4.5.1. Con: Deciding you want to provide for and raise someone without giving them a say in the matter can be pretty selfish, and nobody consents to be born.
1.4.6. Con: [Blood Quantum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blood_quantum_laws) laws incentivize procreation and indeed treat DNA proving birth to natural parents as a special condition for tribal membership. Native American tribes have value and without procreation they risk losing their status as federally recognized tribes. Procreation to further a group identity is, at least in part, for the sake of those other than oneself.
1.5. Con: Humans have a right to determine what happens to their bodies. Procreation is one such choice.
1.5.1. Con: Simply having a right to do with your body what you want does not mean that procreating is something people should do.
1.5.2. Con: Procreation is not always a choice. As females get control over their reproductive system, they tend to have fewer children. [un.org](http://www.un.org/en/development/desa/population/publications/pdf/family/trendsContraceptiveUse2015Report.pdf&ved=2ahUKEwju-dHH4IvdAhXEFCwKHZZuCQYQFjACegQICBAB&usg=AOvVaw1uLu61xeesX5ldTPAxUObD&cshid=1535322130151). They should be given a choice and hopefully they choose to have few children.
1.5.3. Pro: [Amnesty International](https://www.amnesty.org/en/get-involved/my-body-my-rights/) supports the idea of 'my body, my rights'.
1.5.3.1. Con: Procreation involves a third party that has no choice but to exist.
1.6. Pro: Every human puts a great strain on the environment through consumption.
1.6.1. Pro: Adding humans to an over-populated planet experiencing chronic resource scarcity hastens the demise of decent civilization. An extinction event is presumed an acceptable outcome each time a child is born.
1.6.2. Pro: The world is likely to eventually suffer from a lack of resources, such as food and land space. Bringing more humans into the world only speeds this process up and makes life more difficult for people.
1.6.3. Con: While disproportionate, ecological disaster and extinction are not unique to humans. However, the ability to implement scientific intervention is.
1.6.3.1. Con: The ability to sometimes fix a problem you created does not morally or ethically justify the creation of the problem.
1.6.3.2. Con: Humanity has been concocted as a form ecological self-destruction by nature itself. Nature is to be conceived as a destructive force rather than a harmonious one. Humanity ought to thus act in nature's interest in ways that nature cannot, by terminating its own proliferating and destructive force. Procreation is part of humanity's slavery to the self-destructive will of nature.
1.6.4. Con: The majority of resources are consumed by a minority of humans. Apparently, the number of humans itself is not the problem but consumption patterns.
1.6.4.1. Con: Overpopulation and overconsumption are both factors. We should reduce both, not one or the other.
1.6.5. Con: The environment is only of value as it supports the life of conscious creatures. Such conscious creatures would continue in our absence but their total extinction at some point prior to our sun becoming a red giant is inevitable. Our environment is doomed to die out but the conscious life it gave rise to may live on if humans can solve the problems necessary to escape the solar system.
1.6.5.1. Con: Claiming that the environment is only of value insofar as it supports the life of conscious creatures instrumentalizes the well-being of non-conscious entities which still undoubtedly have an interest in their own well-being. Their existence beckons us to envision our interest in our well-being as being on equal footing with theirs. The environment is thus of value to all creatures, not just conscious ones.
1.6.6. Con: The harm done by a born child ought not to be instrumentalized as a net harm upon the environment, since this does not treat the suffering of the life created as our primary ethical concern. Ecological antinatalist arguments fail to orient our moral duty towards the child whose life is at stake, thus treating the child as a means rather than an end.
1.6.6.1. Con: There is no "child whose life is at stake." It does not exist before the decision has been made to bear it. There is no life at stake when one decides not to have a child.
1.7. Con: Procreating brings joy and security to parents.
1.7.1. Pro: Many people love the experience of raising their children, and being able to pass on knowledge to these children and watch them grow.
1.7.2. Pro: People get joy out of life by having close relationships with others, particularly their family. Individuals should be able to choose to extend this by bringing children into the world who they can love and care for, and who will likely show them love and care in return.
1.7.2.1. Con: You may be able to choose something, without it being a morally correct choice.
1.7.3. Pro: Procreating assures that there will be someone there to care for parents when they are elderly.
1.7.3.1. Con: It is not necessary for posterity to care for the elderly. Care is not assured.
1.7.3.2. Con: Procreation for the benefit of the elderly is using another being's life for personal gain, which is immoral.
1.7.3.3. Pro: Often children provide financial assistance to their parents. In the US, for example, [76%](http://www.pewsocialtrends.org/2015/05/21/2-supporting-family-members/) state that they provide financial assistance to elderly parents if needed.
1.7.3.4. Pro: If elderly parents do receive financial assistance they are less likely to suffer from [depression](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3734958/).
1.7.4. Con: -> See 1.4.
1.7.5. Con: If one ought to procreate with respect to the joy of doing so, it follows that for any action, the possible result of an individually pleasurable experience would therefore provide adequate support for the choice. However, although one might experience joy as the result of a choice, the extending influence of said choice might still be inconsistent with an arguably 'right' action. Only with a purely hedonistic perspective of 'the good' can one argue that pleasure implies right action.
1.8. Pro: Non existence never hurt anyone.
1.8.1. Pro: People who don't exist are not aware of the possibility of life, they are not missing out on anything. Scenario A: X doesn't exist so absence of pleasure \(not bad\), absence of pain \(good\). Scenario B: X does exist so presence of pleasure \(good\), presence of pain \(bad\).
1.8.2. Con: Lack of hurt is not the determining factor for moral obligations or prohibitions.
1.8.2.1. Con: Although it may not be the sole factor, the belief that suffering is bad is *a* determining factor for many people's ideas of morality.
1.8.3. Pro: Suffering \(of any kind\) can only be experienced by those who exist.
1.9. Con: There is value in human life. If all humans did not procreate, this would be lost.
1.9.1. Pro: Many resources \(e.g. food, water, shelter\) are important for our own survival: procreation helps build a labor force which, while consuming more resources, is capable of obtaining or producing these, making our lives easier in the long run.
1.9.1.1. Con: This new generation might consume more than what will be produced, making our/their lives harder in the long run.
1.9.1.2. Con: Procreating to produce a labor force that benefits ourselves is selfish.
1.9.2. Pro: Humans are unique creatures who can provide things to the world that no other species can.
1.9.2.1. Pro: Humans are Earth's most likely species to encounter and communicate with extraterrestrial life, and therefore bring Terra into the era of intergalactic relations. There are many wonders of the universe yet to be discovered, and we are the most likely entities that we're aware of to discover them.
1.9.2.1.1. Pro: Humans may eventually be able to move life to other planets, there by enabling the long term survival of the ecosystem past the planets life.
1.9.2.1.2. Con: This could entail either welcoming extraterrestrial life as an invasive species unto ourselves, or result in humans becoming an invasive species themselves. Either way, more suffering would most likely be the consequence.
1.9.2.2. Pro: As far as we are aware humans are the only beings who can create knowledge. Knowledge can solve most, if not all, of the problems that lead to the unnecessary suffering of conscious creatures. Therefore, if we choose extinction then we give up the chance of a creating a future world free of unnecessary suffering.
1.9.3. Con: Humans' individual lives have value, but this will be lost regardless of whether we procreate or not, and "the value of human life" is not a fungible commodity, so procreating does not correct this.
1.9.4. Pro: Humans are the only creatures with souls. Souls have intrinsic value i.e. it is morally acceptable to murder a bug, not a human. If there were no humans there would be no souls and we would lose that value.
1.9.4.1. Con: This argument cannot function without a clear account of what a "soul" is and how we know it exists.
1.9.5. Con: Unless one proposes that human life is itself the most intrinsically valuable 'end' of 'being', a further articulation is needed on the ways in which continued human presence positively influences the natural world relative to an intrinsically valuable, ideal 'state of being' for all that is. If life itself is that upon which we place value, the question becomes whether or not human life has a necessarily positive impact on the ability for life \(generally\) to form and flourish in it's own right.
1.9.6. Pro: Humans generally enrich society through culture, charity or financial success.