Discussion Title: If everyone agreed life was objectively meaningless, societies would be more peaceful.

1. If everyone agreed life was objectively meaningless, societies would be more peaceful.
1.1. Con: Sadly, too many would not be able to cope and their psyche would crumble, there would be great chaos for quite some time...
1.1.1. Con: Many people throughout history have entertained forms of nihilism without mentally breaking down.
1.2. Con: The contrary would be true. More people would have incentive for waging destruction if they thought it wouldn't matter in the end.
1.2.1. Con: I would suggest this to be false, as people would place a lot more price on their current lives, the only thing they actually have.
1.2.2. Pro: The belief in a just world is a strong motivator.
1.3. Con: If one has no meaning he has no goals to archive. On a bigger scale this leads to a collective feeling of chaos while order is needed for peace.
1.4. Con: Without a shared value system people would find it difficult to co-operate.
1.4.1. Pro: Shared values and shared customs make it easier for people to communicate and understand one another.
1.4.2. Con: Life having an objective meaning is not a necessity for having a shared value system between people. Many people that do share a common value system might disagree on what the meaning of life is.
1.5. Con: If everyone truly agreed that life was objectively meaningless, society would not find peace very meaningful either. We would find \(and we are finding today\) that peace would just become a synonym for "boredom", and people would go back to try doing "meaningful" things, only with more frustration.
1.6. Con: School shootings are the most obvious example of nihilism's inherent tendency towards violence.   As \(particularly\) young men become more hopeless under perceived or real suffering, they turn to nihilism, and justify destroying "the system" they believe to be the source of their suffering.
1.6.1. Con: A certain subset of the population supposedly using nihilism to justify acts of violence does not demonstrate that a world in which nihilism is universally accepted would be just as or more violent.
1.7. Con: Such a scenario would be self-contradictory and self-destructive, as it is one in which everyone transcends the story within which they exist and describe \(i.e. give meaning to\) it as 'meaningless', while ascribing objective meaning to concepts such as 'peace'.
1.8. Pro: Life is objectively meaningless \(i.e. the universe has no purpose for us\) but it has subjective meaning for the individual \(i.e. you find meaning in your own life - particularly in helping improve the experiences and outcomes of your fellow travellers\) and humanity as a whole is free to define and pursue its values and destiny.
1.9. Con: The average person can't help but not agree that their personal life is meaningless, but they could still view the lives of others as meaningless \(which can cause the self-justification of immoral acts\). Therefore, societies should teach that life is objectively and equally meaningful for everyone. Such an idea would encourage peace as people would aim to do to others what they would want for themselves.
1.10. Pro: If certain values or goals aren't raised above others everyone would be free to do what they want.
1.10.1. Con: A sadist would be equally free to do what they want as a pacifist. The value or goal of individual self determination wouldn't be raised above others, rendering objections about lack of consent to anyone else's behavior meaningless.
1.11. Con: The acceptance of a lack of meaning may cause mental distress for some people.
1.12. Pro: Without searching for objective meaning we could focus more on our own subjective experiences.
1.13. Con: Without shared morals and values people could justify all kinds of horrific behavior.
1.13.1. Con: People regularly justify horrific behavior in societies with shared morals and values.
1.13.1.1. Con: People tend to justify horrible acts done to others outside their social sphere, rather than to those that share their values.
1.13.1.1.1. Con: People justify horrific acts done on animals.
1.13.2. Con: Existence's futility is not incompatible with the establishment of shared moral standards & values...
1.14. Pro: It would put people in a situation where they are more easily able to understand someone else perspective without a value judgement being placed on it.
1.14.1. Pro: It would be easier to consider the ideas of others from their perspective without a governing central dogma.
1.15. Con: Without some level of shared meaning or indoctrination it's difficult to see how a society could possibly function.
1.16. Pro: No-one would be forced to live a lifestyle that they don't agree with or have to justify their validity to someone else.
1.16.1. Con: A person that believes everything is meaningless has no less reason to force other to live a certain way than someone who believe life has meaning. A nihilist could actually use their nihilism to justify forceful behavior a la "nothing matters so there is nothing telling me I'm not 'supposed' to torture people to get them to behave how prefer."
1.16.2. Con: There is a reasonable middle ground between forcing people to adopt a particular lifestyle and agreeing upon some basic rules and values that most people adhere to.