Discussion Title: If Scientifically Possible, Should Humans Become Immortal?

1. If scientifically possible, humans should become immortal.
1.1. Con: As humans become older we become more set in our ways. If we didn't die and make room for new thought we'd still be behaving as if we're in the stone ages.
1.1.1. Pro: With immortality you have a growing pool of older entrenched conservatives resisting change brought on by younger generations. This affects all aspects of life, including science, art, literature, medicine, etc.
1.1.1.1. Pro: An expert having practiced their field for several decades or centuries would feel little incentive to change their practices, and little incentive to teach others their methods.
1.1.1.1.1. Con: The more you are an expert in the field, the more you deepen issues in detail, like identifying different shades of color in a light spectrum.
1.1.2. Con: Assuming that we have the knowledge and technology to extend life indefinitely, we should be able to come up with ways to retain mental flexibility and learning.
1.1.2.1. Con: Ancient immortals may have the ability to learn, but not the willingness to do so. Once people are used to a decent lifestyle and practice, they are generally unwilling to change it.
1.1.2.2. Pro: Research into aging and NAD+ suggests that the brain can be altered and some conditions reversed/ reduced  by increasing NAD+ in the brain. This may indicate that there are pathways to maintaining brain plasticity as we age. [www.lifeextension.com](http://www.lifeextension.com/Magazine/2018/5/NAD-Reduces-Alzheimers-Risk/Page-01)
1.1.2.3. Pro: If "Old" people don't change their ways, due to a physiological reason then that is something which we can reverse easily with advanced technology.
1.1.3. Pro: When humans are younger, they have less power. As they get older, they gain more influence and ability to affect the world around them. This means that if everyone is immortal and you are born later, you are born into a permanent social caste with no possibility to improve your lot in life.
1.1.4. Con: There already exist ways to increase openess to new experiences.[ncbi.nlm.nih.gov](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3537171/)
1.1.5. Con: The fear of death might be part of the reason why we stay set in our old ways.
If you are terrified that you won't be able to try again you have no options left but to believe you were going the right way.
1.1.6. Pro: Sometimes, progress in any area \(art or science\) requires abandoning older ideas and starting over. The longer we live, we get more attached to our traditions and thought patterns and it gets harder to start over. Thus, immortality will be detrimental to progress, by reducing chances of renewals.
1.2. Pro: It would be the starting point of becoming an interplanetarian species.
1.2.1. Pro: Becoming an interplanetary species is an inevitable requirement for our survival.
1.2.1.1. Con: If we stop destroying the planet ourselves, the other risks to human survival are so remote as to be meaningless.
1.2.1.2. Pro: If we become immortal nowadays the earth will be overpopulated. But in future , when we will be beginning colonizing other planets or even other galaxy , then we can, because universe is so big and we can get enough resurs.
1.2.1.3. Pro: The Sun will inevitably run out of fuel, expand and eventually die. We need to go elsewhere if we don't want to go extinct.
1.2.1.3.1. Con: The sun [has enough](https://www.space.com/14732-sun-burns-star-death.html) hydrogen to last another 5 billion years. It isn't urgent for humans to become immortal based on the sun's lifespan.
1.2.2. Pro: Long human space voyages would become possible and even necessary.
1.2.2.1. Con: It probably wouldn't take significantly fewer resources to sustain an existing human than it would be to make new ones, the accessibility of space travel would therefore not be hugely effective.
1.2.3. Pro: We could improve our knowledge of how universe works.
1.2.3.1. Con: We are constantly improving our knowledge of the universe. Being immortal is not necessary to do it.
1.2.4. Con: Managing an interplanetary immortal mankind could be beyond our means.
1.2.4.1. Pro: So far we have not been so successful as a species in managing our existence on the Earth. We made wars and war threats, unequal distribution of resources, polution and global warming, ...
1.2.4.1.1. Con: The decisions to ravage and war are made by only a very few power hungry individuals so it is not 'We' but 'They' who have been unsuccessful in managing our existence on the Earth.
1.2.5. Pro: The strain \(solution\) we are now putting on the Earth could be distributed between other planets also, making it less damageable for each of them.
1.2.6. Pro: Reaching other habitable planets is necessary for humans to continue and pass on our biological code.
1.2.6.1. Pro: The purpose of life is to continue the biological code, because most plants and animals' sole purpose is to gain sustenance and procreate.
1.2.6.1.1. Con: Life itself was developed by mindless chemical reactions over millenia and therefore natural procreation/evolution is not necessarily a model to be copied or even respected.
1.2.6.1.1.1. Con: Hormones, produced by chemical reactions, released at particular junctures in biologically predetermined timelines influence non-voluntary physiological desires like lust, also condition us to desire enacting behaviors that feed us.
1.2.6.2. Pro: Earth, as habitable as we know it to be, has a finite \(but unknown\) amount of time.
1.2.7. Pro: Reaching another galaxy or star can take several light years, and our short life doesn't suffice.
1.2.7.1. Pro: Immortality would allow a whole crew to enter a state of deep sleep for hundreds, even thousands of years as their spacecraft accelerated to and decelerated from near-relativistic speeds.
1.2.7.2. Con: We do not need to reach them within our lifetime. [Generation ships](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generation_ship) are an alternative.
1.2.8. Con: Interplanetary colonization can be done even without immortality because people can travel to other planets in the solar system, colonize them, and perhaps terraform them as mortals.
1.2.8.1. Con: Terraforming takes much longer than a single lifespan to accomplish, which means that people would be dependent on Earth's resources. Earth doesn't currently treat space colonization as a worthy goal. Therefore only with immortality and independence from Earth can viable space colonies be set up even within the solar system.
1.2.8.2. Con: The colonization that took place on Earth had many negative consequences. Space colonization might be no different in that respect, if not done in a peaceful, respectful way, and especially if being mortal is adding stress to achieving it quickly.
1.2.9. Con: Becoming an interplanetary species may not be beneficial for everyone.
1.3. Pro: Immortality would change the way we view life and our place in the universe.
1.3.1. Con: Being immortal does not change the fact that we are less than a tiny spec of insignificance floating in a void of cold indifference on a universal scale.
1.3.1.1. Con: Immortality frees us from the physical prison of a single planet, and thus the limitations of earthbound thought by allowing us time to develop technologies which could ultimately affect the wider universe.
1.3.1.1.1. Con: Space rockets did that already in 60's, but politicians have preferred we stay on one planet. Technology of Immortality may not be any different if powers-that-be still don't want any change to status quo.
1.3.1.1.1.1. Con: Rockets did not free us from our prison planet, only gave a very few a short holiday. To truly move beyond earthbound philosophy, humans would require the ability to leave permanently en masse and live long enough to reach other habitable worlds.
1.3.1.1.2. Pro: Immortality would free us from earthly chains of needing stuff and things to survive, to having those things as flavors to [relieve our boredom](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ok8N2PkqCDs).
1.3.1.2. Con: But it means that we can have a chance to leave a lasting mark on the universe... even if it is comparable to a an ink smudge on a floor of a school laboratory...and then in a few trillions of years, come back to to have some feelings about still being able to see it.
1.3.1.2.1. Con: In the time it takes to leave something comparable to an ink smudge, you will have experienced the heat death of the universe.
1.3.1.3. Con: Most people are not concerned with the insignificance of themselves in comparison to the universe.
1.3.1.3.1. Con: The original post was about changing our perception of our place in the universe, if someone does not consider their place in the universe, this thread is irrelevant to them.
1.3.1.4. Con: Our perception of our own significance or insignificance is just one aspect of what "the way we view life and our place in the universe" encompasses, and it's possible to have a huge change in the latter with little or no change in the former.
1.3.2. Con: Every change can be for better or for worse, in this case it's very hard to predict which way it would take considering we have no concrete information on cases like this.
1.3.3. Pro: Achieving immortality would make us more thoughtful of the environment, as we will live to see the consequences of our actions.
1.3.3.1. Con: Achieving immortality could make us less thoughtful of the environment, as immortality would free us from dependence on the environment for survival.
1.3.4. Pro: Humans would be wiser, on average.
1.3.5. Pro: As we witness life evolving for such a long time, we would get to see many beautiful and intriguing patterns which we had no way of perceiving as mortals. \(Think of it as an immersive time-lapse video.\) Just imagine being able to watch trees \(and forests\) grow, mountains being formed, species appearing, ... Maybe even perceive the universe expanding, all this simply through our senses.
1.3.5.1. Pro: Indeed our sense of time would change dramatically as our minds adjusted to an ever-increasing memory reference, as happens already as we get older and years begin to seem like months.
1.3.6. Pro: There is neither death nor birth in reality.
1.3.7. Con: We can do that everyday of our lives. Anything we confront in our lives as an individual or species can change the way we percieve that.
1.4. Pro: Being immortal would result in more net happiness.
1.4.1. Con: The amplification effect of accumulating people with positives and negatives will affect people in unpredictable ways; We lack the measure for living well. The requirement for this to be good is for people to live well.
1.4.2. Pro: It would combat the fact that in many countries people stress for a lifetime and die as soon as they'd became pensioners.
1.4.3. Pro: Being able to spend more time with loved ones is likely to result in more happiness.
1.4.3.1. Con: It may be that the value we place on other people is inextricably tied to their mortality. One can conceive of the possibility that without the mortality, human beings value one another and their lives less.
1.4.4. Con: Mathematically speaking, it's just more life. You then have to fill that life with happiness, which is not easy, because it will cost: energy, money, time, resources. If you want to stay happy forever, you spend infinitely more, yet the net product \(average-ly happy\) is the same.
1.4.4.1. Con: It depends on what you perceive happiness to be. Money can't bring happiness it can only bring perceived happiness for a short time, till the money runs out.
1.5. Con: If everyone was immortal and people continue having children, the Earth would eventually become overpopulated.
1.5.1. Con: Humanity need not be limited to Earth.
1.5.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.
1.5.2. Con: Assuming very advanced technology, as immortality would suggest, Earth could likely support an enormous population.
1.5.3. Con: In an overpopulated eco-system where we have actually been acting as an infection, longevity is precisely the problem.
1.5.3.1. Con: Not longevity, but the number of children surviving to fertility per woman is, but that is also reversing. World population is likely to plateau within this century, and might even decline.[nature.com](https://www.nature.com/articles/35087589)
1.5.4. Pro: Earth would run out of resources.
1.5.4.1. Pro: We already have massive issues in the global distribution of resources \(for economical, political, cultural, ... reasons\), which results in a lot of waste. With immortality, that waste could increase.
1.5.4.2. Con: Immortality might alter the way we consume resources: there would be time for used resources to be replaced. As we have all the time in the world to do what we wish to accomplish, maybe we would stop rushing through life so much.. thus slowing down the rythm of consumption.
1.5.4.3. Con: The most significant natural resource is human intellect.
1.5.4.3.1. Pro: Greater masses of humanity result in greater quantities of human intellect, which leads to the discovery of new resources, advancements in the uses of existing resources, etc.
1.5.5. Con: People in wealthier [developed countries](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4255510/) are already choosing to have fewer kids. People in poor countries won't be able to afford immortality.
1.5.5.1. Pro: Considering it would most probably mean no more or very limited births, the lack of diversity and renovation in human personality, thought and view on life would limit humanity's potential.
1.5.6. Con: Overpopulation is irrelevant ot immortality. People don't have to be immortal to overpopulate Earth, we just have to have positive pop groth, which we have.
1.5.7. Con: Extending mortality does not necessarily mean extending fertility.
1.5.7.1. Con: Even without extended fertility, a 0% death rate would necessarily lead to overpopulation if any level of reproduction continued.
1.5.8. Pro: If we became immortal, there would be less space to utilize on earth because there would potentially be more people being born than dying.
1.5.8.1. Con: Overpopulation will not be an issue, as it will be solved any number of ways, using the mental power of trillions of people.
1.5.8.1.1. Pro: Overpopulation is already solved by, by today's standards, ancient technologies like [O'Neill cylinder](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gTDlSORhI-k) and other mega-structures, unfortunately politicians were not ready for that move.
1.5.9. Pro: More people living means less job openings and opportunities.
1.5.9.1. Con: Population count is not a driver for job openings and opportunities. We can see this from the large ranges of population concentrations and that these do not correlate with available job openings and opportunities. Especially not in a way that higher concentrations produce less job opportunities.
1.5.9.2. Con: We are heading towards a society that does not require humans to work anymore. The amount of people is therefore irrelevant. Only the capacity of the machinery and resources that sustain human life matters.
1.5.10. Pro: Since little to no people would die anymore, childbirth would almost certainly be banned.
1.5.11. Con: Wealthy countries experience [lower birth rates](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4255510/), so if immortality coincided with a post-scarcity economy, it's likely population would achieve a steady balance.
1.5.11.1. Con: But then you contend with the wiping out of traditionally wealthier demographics and ethnicities, leading to a world wherein the vast majority of our descendants are composed of ethnicities which were previously economically subjugated minorities.
1.5.12. Con: As society adapts to the new reality, new politics and cultural changes could be adopted in order to limit the population growth.
1.5.12.1. Con: Reproduction is a necessary part of evolution. If we never evolve to become more intelligent or resourceful, we may run the risk of extinction as the earth, or the solar system, or the galaxy meets its eventual demise.
1.5.12.2. Con: This may imply we would have to chose, ultimately, to make some people immortal, and leave the rest to die.. consensus will very likely be unachievable. And an assembly or an individual's decision on this will not be accepted by everybody. Conflicts will arise.
1.5.12.3. Con: This would result in a limit for people capable of reproduction to avoid overpopulation. Not only would these people be forced not to have children because other people selfishly want to live forever, but it would also deny other potential people from being alive.
1.6. Pro: Human immortality is the next step in the evolution chain.
1.6.1. Con: Evolution requires death or mutations that result in better survival would not be different to ones that result in continued existence.
1.6.1.1. Con: A continued existence would include the benefits that future science holds.
1.6.2. Con: Evolution is not a process that proceeds from "less advanced" to "more advanced" \("better"\) creatures, so proceeding to the next step of human evolution is not necessarily meaningful, let alone actually *good*.
1.7. Pro: If we are striving for health which is the most logical and ethical thing to do, then the natural consequence of that is a non aging \(yet still mortal\) human.
1.7.1. Pro: Even if immortality turns out to have a negative effect the same technology could vastly improve our quality of life as we age so it is completely worth pursuing
1.7.2. Pro: Aging leads suffering.  People should have right to live in good perpetual youthful health for as long as they are alive.
1.7.2.1. Con: Aging is a great regulatory system for how much of our lives we should spend playing, learning, working the grind-stone, etc. to balance the economy and standard of living.
1.7.3. Con: The Maslow scale places survival and health as the first level of our needs. Above this are security, interpersonal relations, interpersonal recognition, and personal realization.  We are not only striving for health. Satisfaction of our primary need will not bring full satisfaction.
1.7.3.1. Con: Human immortality is the first step. The first step is by definition a requirement for the second step.
1.7.4. Con: The ability to immortality will provide ability for a much healthier life as long as one decides to live.
1.7.5. Con: An extended life of senescence may be considered as a burden with negative value, thus the priority should not be on extending the lifespan \(immortality\), but on extending health and youth \(enjoyable life\).
1.7.5.1. Con: If people are immortal they could reap the benefits of future science which could make them regain their health and youth.
1.7.5.2. Con: Outside of some unfortunate characters in mythology and fantasy, eternal life without eternal youth is not an issue to worry about. It is impossible to extend lifespan except by extending health and youth.
1.8. Con: Endless lifespan would cause an even worse power of wealth.
1.8.1. Pro: With an infinite amount of time to accrue money, and without social leveling mechanisms \(such as the inheritance tax\), the rich would become unfathomably wealthy, creating further social inequality.
1.8.1.1. Pro: Death is the most fair thing in the world... both rich and poor have to deal with it.
1.8.1.1.1. Con: Both have to deal with it yet mortality rate is higher for poor people than rich so its still already unfairly distributed.
1.8.1.1.1.1. Con: Life extension technologies would only exacerbate this facet of inequality as well, since these technologies would become available to the hyperwealthy first, if they become available to less wealthy people at all..
1.8.1.2. Pro: Technology is not equally available. This means that people born into wealth would be the ones to live forever, leaving future lower-income generations to cater to the needs of the immortals
1.8.1.3. Con: In a future were no one dies, people who strive for equality will also be immortal.
1.8.2. Pro: The lust for power would be serviced by such an advancement. Immortal dictator, perpetual dictatorship.
1.8.2.1. Con: The cases where a dictator lives long enough to die of old age, and then the dictatorship dissolves upon his death, are only a minority of cases.
1.8.3. Con: After a long pursuit, the lust for power and wealth would slowly disappear. Often after chasing power/wealth for the lifetime many realize the superficiality of these pursuit and turn spiritual instead. After a while, the rich and wealthy would start to ask 'what's the point of all these'?
1.8.4. Con: With a longer lifespan, individual merits would be more relevant and biases due to opportunities at birth would be less significant. Success and power would be less a result of context at birth or young age and more a result of individual actions.
1.8.5. Pro: Immortality in our current society without wealth redistribution would mean unending suffering for most people in the world.
1.8.5.1. Con: That wealth redistribution will not happen is not a given.
1.8.5.2. Con: The decline of absolute poverty over the past two centuries was driven by [economic growth](https://ourworldindata.org/extreme-poverty#extreme-poverty-in-a-historical-perspective), not by increasing wealth redistribution.
1.9. Con: Life would lose all its value if it never ended.
1.9.1. Con: It is not death, inherently, which gives life meaning, but rather challenge and growth.
1.9.1.1. Con: With no death there is no real challenge. That is both true for games and for Life: it's not a challenge if your mistakes are irrelevant, since you can try again later. Nothing will "stop" the challenge, so it's not a challenge anymore.
Growth ends at some point, otherwise it becomes normal and irrelevant.
1.9.2. Con: A lot of people already believe in afterlife which is simply another form of immortality
1.9.3. Pro: [Researchers](https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/the-big-questions/201106/does-death-awareness-heighten-the-meaning-life) found that when people are more aware of death, they place more value on life.
1.9.4. Pro: Immortality will make wealthy people paranoid and depressed, because taking risks in life will have vastly reduced value and can also be postponed indefinitely.
1.9.5. Pro: The value we place in new life would be less significant if there were no foreseeable end.
1.9.5.1. Con: Unfortunately we currently seem to devalue old human life, disposing of it in nursing homes to die slowly. Without inevitable death, new life would become even more signficant because it would necessarily be rare and the old, valuable resources of experience.
1.9.6. Con: Death does not give value to life. Death increases the value of time. If i have limited amount of some resource, it gets more valuable. But if i have unlimited amount of some resourse, that would not make it valueless.
1.9.6.1. Pro: For example, infinite space does not make space valueless.
1.9.7. Pro: Death is necessary for many reasons.
1.9.7.1. Con: Death in biosphere in general is nessesary, but we can safely exclude humans from the cycle without harm done to it.
1.9.7.2. Pro: Death is a natural part of life.
1.9.7.2.1. Con: Something being natural doesn't mean it has to continue to exist.
1.9.7.3. Pro: Thinking in terms of cycles, nothing is able to live just by itself, something is needed to be lost to sustain that life.
1.9.7.4. Pro: Death is the primary tool of evolution. To eliminate death for some arbitrary individuals is to eliminate evolution for the species, effectively condemning mankind as a whole to stagnation and obsolescence.
1.9.7.4.1. Pro: Mankind having thus freezed its evolution process would lose its adaptability to environmental changes, as no natural selection would occur.
1.9.7.4.1.1. Con: We have been adapting to environmental changes for centuries by building shelters and wearing clothes. Technology gives us the ability to compete with change. Immortality would presumably require direct alteration of the human genome so any other alteration required should be possible using the same technology.
1.9.7.4.2. Pro: We would never know into what our species could have evolved had we not stopped the whole process.
1.9.7.4.3. Con: We do have, to some extent, the possibility to modify our genetic code through genetic engineering.. so there would be a way to escape stagnation and secure adaptability.
1.9.7.4.4. Con: It is possible that enough people would refuse immortality as to allow a natural evolution of the human species to continue in parallel. If we develop immortality however, this too is part of evolution for we are creatures like any other, no matter what action we take.
1.9.7.4.5. Con: By becoming immortal you take your evolution into your own hands, no matter which technology you use to achieve immortality, thus making original approach to evolution obsolete yet still valid for those that remain mortal.
1.9.7.4.6. Pro: If humans became immortal, but could only have children between the ages of 15 and 45 as they do now \(puberty to menopause\), then we would have either an increasing number of people perpetually stuck in timeless middle aged life or an ever larger number of people would stop having children. Either leads to stagnation and stagnation leads to apathy and death of innovation.
1.9.7.4.6.1. Con: Knowing that others are immortal will make people more interested in forming bonds with one other.
1.9.7.4.6.2. Con: Stagnation, apathy and the death of innovation are far preferable to actual literal death.
1.9.7.5. Pro: Death motivates us to live and behave from a place of appreciation.
1.9.7.5.1. Pro: Humans with indefinite lives need to think and act more responsible than they do right now. However, people tend to learn and change their views only when they suffer.
1.9.8. Con: Some people may continue to find value in their life even after becoming immortal, and it would be wrong to impose meaninglessness over them.
1.9.9. Pro: Since purpose or meaning can only exist within space/time, it is meaningless to aim at immortality, as it amounts to existing for the sake of existing.
1.9.9.1. Con: Without knowing what exists outside space time, we can not be sure it is void of purpose, or meaning.
1.9.9.1.1. Con: We minimally know what doesn't exist outside space-time:  Space and time...  Purpose and meaning are fundamentally rooted in space-time, they can only emerge from space-time. The very nature of the concept of purpose/goal/point, imply a now and future state.
1.9.9.2. Con: People would fill their now infinite lives with purpose. Those who don't could decide not to become biologically immortal in the first place.
1.9.9.2.1. Con: Biological "immortality" is impossible, it would mean being able to survive our own universe's death \(which is unavoidable\) and be able to exist , coherently, outside space-time... Immortality doesn't mean very long-lived, it literally means you cannot die, that you are unable to, even if you wish it...
1.9.9.2.1.1. Con: The term "[biological immortality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biological_immortality)" only means that life expectancy is decoupled from ageing, and does not imply these further claims about true immortality.
1.9.9.3. Con: Whether purpose or meaning exist *within* space/time is not exactly a settled question in philosophy.
1.10. Con: Knowing they are immortal, people may adopt more reckless behavior.
1.10.1. Con: People are immortal when it comes to the aging process, not to damage caused by unnatural causes - for example falling off a cliff could still cause death.
1.10.2. Pro: People avoid certain dangerous behaviors because of the risk of death. Without this risk, people may choose to take more risks, putting themselves and others in danger.
1.10.2.1. Con: If death is impossible by natural means, people will become much more afraid of dying through violence or their own stupidity, so they will take fewer risks.
1.10.3. Con: Being immortal, people may relax more knowing they have more time to accomplish their goals and reach their true potential.
1.10.3.1. Con: Which means laziness \(when you have infinite time, why hurry?\), slow evolution \(you don't try as hard, and you accomplish less in more time\), probably stagnation \(There is no hurry nor urgency when the danger of Death is nullified\).
When you have a schedule, you do stuff. When you have "Infinite time" you are less likely to improve
1.10.4. Con: Unlikely. Immortal people would only be resistant to aging - not to injury or other diseases.
1.10.5. Con: Even if that were true, this would not necessarily be a problem. People should be free to take more risks if they want to.
1.10.6. Con: People will more likely play if safe if they become immortal, so as not to end a life that can go on forever.
1.10.6.1. Con: If you know you have infinite lives in a videogame, you don't play "safer". Games with limited amounts of Lives make you play safer. Games in which you can always "Come back" to the same point as before don't need that tactic.
1.11. Pro: We would have more time to create, to make scientific breakthroughs, and to create bigger legacies.
1.11.1. Pro: It would allow researchers and top-notch minds to work on their research for much longer; having them would give us an advantage.
1.11.1.1. Con: If we reach the point where one person knows they have time to study everything by themselves and develop theories and test them on their on, ego might take a toll.. and significantly reduce interpersonal communication and collaboration in science.
1.11.2. Pro: Immortality would allow us to co-exist with artificial general intelligence, adapting to advances which mortal humans simply wouldn't have time enough to grasp.
1.11.3. Pro: Without the stress to achieve as much as they can in their lifetime, researchers might develop even more collaborative relations. Therefore, there would be less competition in the scientific field, allowing for a wider distribution of knowledge, and ultimately more scientific breakthrough.
1.11.4. Con: With immortality, there is no point in scientific breakthroughs in medicine, drugs, and other things because we won't need it.
1.11.4.1. Pro: We don't have to do anything because we wont fear death.
1.11.4.1.1. Con: We will still fear death, we just won't fear aging.
1.11.4.2. Con: Self-defeating point. Stopping research on improving human health so that it can be done \(but it cannot be done, because we stopped it\) is contradiction.
1.11.4.3. Con: We would not be able to die due to aging, this does not mean that we would become invulnerable to foreign bodies.
1.12. Con: Being immortal may bring about more human suffering.
1.12.1. Pro: Some people may look forward to death. They are not given the chance to die if they become immortal.
1.12.1.1. Con: At least in physically healthy people, wishing oneself dead - that is, to be suicidal - is generally regarded as a symptom of mental illness and not a legitimate preference.
1.12.2. Con: Immortality does not imply invincibility. Those suffering, or those wishing to die for other reasons, may decide to be euthanized.
1.12.2.1. Con: Immortality literally means being exempt from death, whether by choice or not... Immortals cannot die by definition or they are not immortals...
1.12.3. Pro: [Existence is suffering​](https://www.britannica.com/topic/dukkha).
1.12.4. Pro: Some people may feel societal pressure to become immortal despite not wanting to.
1.12.4.1. Con: There will always be societal pressures with any new advancements. It is up to each individual to choose how they navigate and deal with these pressures.
1.12.4.2. Pro: Discrimination may occur against people who do not wish to become immortal.
1.12.4.2.1. Con: In a society of immortal people, life would be more valuable and humans would learn to respect each other independently of beliefs, race or, in this case, choice of being mortal.
1.12.4.2.1.1. Con: -> See 1.8.1.
1.12.4.2.2. Pro: If immortality isn't achieved for everyone at once, well off people may become immortal and oppress those who still may die.
1.12.4.3. Pro: Family members and friends would likely encourage one to become immortal so they did not suffer loss.
1.12.4.3.1. Con: It is not clear whether the technology reverses the aging process or just stops it from progressing.  If disrupting a natural process is all it does, making the decision when to stop aging would be really hard.  Staying 17 forever sounds nice but someone who is 97 today may not want to stay that age in perpetuity.
1.12.5. Pro: People with chronic, yet non life-threatening illnesses, may live a life of pain and disease. This is no way to live.
1.12.5.1. Con: People should have the right to chose the life they want to live. They can chose not to live a life of pain and die. Immortality, if brought about by scientific means, would be optional.
1.12.5.1.1. Con: Laws may prohibit certain people from choosing death. For example, a debt collector may lobby to force immortality on those with outstanding debt.
1.12.5.2. Con: If science finds a way to make people immortal, its likely there will also be a way to ease illness.
1.12.6. Pro: Changing this reality could lead us to mental health issues, as humans have always been mortal.
1.12.6.1. Con: If we had the scientific advancement necessary to make everyone immortal, we would likely have advanced far enough to make everyone mentally healthy as well.
1.12.6.2. Con: Avoiding potential mental health issues is not a valid reason to forgo immortality. There is no mental health issue that is worse than death.
1.12.6.2.1. Pro: Mental health issues are, at least on paper, fixable. Death is not. Given infinite time and the exponential rate at which science, particularly medical science progresses it is very unlikely mental health issues will pose a problem.
1.12.6.2.2. Con: Mental death cannot be felt, by definition, so it can't be worse than an infinite suffering.
And if an afterlife exists, this point becomes even more irrelevant.
1.12.6.3. Con: Our mental health depends on our environment, and thus has always changed - just as our environment has changed. There is no reason why we could not adapt to the change.
1.12.6.4. Con: Mental health is a nebulous metric for success considering how many people considered mentally unhealthy have made great contributions in their various fields.
1.12.6.5. Pro: Mortality is a quintessential part of the human condition. Becoming immortal necessitates surrendering the label 'human,' so either the definition of humanity needs to change, or immortals cannot be considered human.
1.12.6.6. Con: It is a horrible thing to die. Ceasing to exist and to think is a terrible fate for every being which has had the privilege of life.
1.12.6.6.1. Con: Not existing is easy and blissful, to exist is to be forced against your will to think and act, which is difficult.
1.12.6.6.2. Con: The fleeting nature of the seasons, and other natural phenomena, gives them their beauty. Thus when things cease to exist, they take on a new, intrinsically fulfilling role.
1.12.6.6.2.1. Con: If it is our individual perception of phenomena natural, fleeting or otherwise which assigns the quality of beauty to something and we cease to exist, so must that particular invocation of beauty.
1.12.6.6.3. Pro: Dying always means losing all your experiences. It takes us years to master some valuable skills. New people have to make the same wasteful sacrifices again and again.
1.12.6.6.4. Pro: Humans don't want to die and already do things to prevent or cheat death: drugs, vaccines, eating healthier, getting resuscitated or taking an organ transplant.
1.12.6.7. Pro: Having to deal with every responsibility we ever took \(on such a long lifespan, some of them are bound to bring negative consequences\), we would be accumulating too much guilt to cope with... Immortality might end up being unbearable.
1.12.6.8. Pro: Our notions of identity as related to time would be disrupted. \(ie: "I am middle-aged.",  "I should choose a career by a certain age.", "Is being a great great great grandfather different from being a grandfather?"\)
1.12.7. Pro: The explosion in population would cause famine, disease, and war. In the end, the only thing that would change is the way you die - not by old age, but by violence or a lack of other necessities of life. Most people would likely see a violent end to their lives.
1.12.8. Con: -> See 1.7.2.
1.12.9. Pro: People being tortured couldn't end their suffering, which means they'll be tortured for eternity.
1.12.9.1. Con: Immortality by the terms of this debate is not necessarily indestructibility; a victim of torture need not be any less capable of committing suicide than in the present.
1.12.9.2. Con: This assumes the person\(s\) torturing them never tires of doing so.
1.12.10. Pro: Malicious people could do way more harm if they lived for ever.
1.12.11. Con: Being immortal may prolong suffering of an individual but immortality alone does not add additional suffering.
1.13. Pro: Each person could live a fuller life, as we could achieve more goals during our lifetime.
1.13.1. Con: At a certain point our goals will all be achieved and life will become dull.
1.13.1.1. Con: During our lifetime our goals change. In an immortal life, we would just have an infinite number of changes in our goals.
1.13.1.1.1. Con: Infinity remains merely as a concept, as it has not been exhibited in physical reality or observed.
1.13.1.1.1.1. Con: Comparing our current lifespan with the expected lifespan of the universe, the latter would feel practically infinite.
1.13.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Practically infinite is still Finite. It's just a human way to say "very big". 10.000 used to be "practically infinite" once.
1.13.1.1.2. Con: There is a limited combination of everything, including experiences, resources and information, so too the goals will be finite. At one point, you will start repeating them all over again.
1.13.1.2. Con: It is possible people could become bored with life, even to the point of wanting to end it, but we deserve the choice to live rather than having mortality forced on us.
1.13.1.2.1. Con: If the choice to live requires the lack of newborns \(ie the opportunity, for more humans, to enjoy life\) and an Infinite amount of Energy, than yes: it is absolutely reasonable to deny the Priviledge* \(Not right\) to extend personal life in a selfish way, forever, and with no meaning too.
1.13.1.2.2. Con: The idea that humans deserve the choice to live forever is an unproven opinion.
1.13.2. Pro: The knowledge and experience that accumulates during a lifetime would not be wasted on death.
1.13.2.1. Con: Immortality may require for us to forget most of what we previously experienced. Think of the amount of information \(episodic memories and general knowledge\) our brain would need to process. It would need to adapt and forgetting things is the brain's natural response to information overload.
1.13.2.2. Con: Information can be stored and passed to others. The Pro is null.
1.13.2.3. Pro: Individuals would gather great wisdom throughout their lives, eliminating the constant repetition of generations failing to learn from the mistakes of those who preceded them.
1.13.3. Con: The concept of life goals would have no meaning in the context of a life without end.
1.13.4. Pro: Scientists would be able to observe phenomenons that occur on a much larger time scale with continuity, i.e. astronomy, geology to name a couple, without having to pass on their research after death.
1.13.4.1. Con: Multiple generations can do the same, without having to force just one generation to enjoy life and prevent others \(or else we'd have Overpopulation\) from living.
1.13.5. Con: This assumes personal goals are beneficial or benign to everyone else.  An immortal with the power and will to make everyone miserable would not be a desirable outcome
1.13.6. Con: The current life span seems long enough to accomplish most if not all our realistic goals. Extending life beyond that would serve no purpose for the people involved.
1.13.6.1. Con: We've developed our way of life around that which is considered achievable inside \(120-ish years\) our lifespan, consequently  with more time to spend we can extend this definition and find better goals to adopt.
1.13.6.1.1. Con: It is not proven that the more we live the more that definition can be extended to infinite. Actually, the more you assume it, the less probable it becomes. So, by claiming that, your assumption is "Infinitively improbable", akin to a 0 Probability, or Impossibility.
1.13.6.2. Con: Once an accomplishment is achieved there can be another and another to consider. One can always find another purpose for themselves.
1.13.6.2.1. Con: The possible combination cannot be infinite, so you'll eventually have to repeat.
1.13.6.3. Con: Any project requiring many lifetimes would be achievable by an individual.
1.13.6.3.1. Pro: There are many people who died before finishing projects or fulfilling their ideas, like scientists and entrepreneurs . All of them could have contributed to our society if they had the chance to live more.
1.13.6.3.2. Con: We have seen the end of very long projects that we didn't start, it is hardly "emotional". Even if you were to start them yourself, they would still be finite. You would be infinite.
1.13.7. Con: Its possible that some people will procrastinate on their goals because they have infinite time to achieve them.
1.13.8. Con: A fuller life, by definition means a life with an end. \(An infinite cup can never be filled\)
1.13.8.1. Con: The purpose of a cup is not to be filled, but to be drank from. The fullness of life comes from experiences. Ending life means an end to new experiences.
1.13.8.1.1. Con: Actually the purpose of a cup is to be filled. Whether you drink from it, or store it in the fridge is irrelevant, but you can't drink from an empty cup.
Same with life: you can't have a fuller life just by expanding the container. Ending life is like ending the amount of sugar you can assume: you avoid Diabetes.
1.13.9. Pro: With more time available, people can create an endless stream of goals and achieve them, leading to a fuller feeling of life since they will have time to do the things they enjoy without rush.
1.13.9.1. Con: Much of the motivation for creating something valuable derives from knowing that our time is limited and that we want to make it count.
1.13.10. Con: The number of experiences you can have is limited.
1.13.10.1. Pro: In a limited time you will do all of them, and you'll eventually repeat them forever, boredom will grow endlessly. Erasing memory is not an option \(since it also partially erases who you are\), chemically altering "boredom" simply makes it less painful, but the life that you live is still an infinite repetition.
1.13.10.2. Con: Language is infinite [Infinite Number of Sentences, Robert Mannell \(1999\), Macquire University](http://clas.mq.edu.au/speech/infinite_sentences/index.html)  Therefore potential experience is infinite -- if only from each new sentence we could hear or write.
1.13.10.2.1. Con: Language is an infinite repetition*
There is a limited number of bits you can fit into a book.
Just making 10 books won't multiply the quality of it, you will eventually repeat yourself.
I'll also argue that the Con did not fully read/understand the link he/she posted, since quote "This means that all of the meaningful vocal nuances of all of the possible sentences in English would be a large, but finite, number"

It's finite according to that same quote. Even the title says so.
1.13.10.3. Con: The same experience is wildly different in every different state of mind. State of mind changes both in a rhythic manner over life \(mood\) and as an arrow \(experience vs youth\).
1.13.10.4. Con: Each experience is unique based upon the state of mind of the one who experiences it. One could only have an identical experience with an identical state of mind.  If one ever has an identical state of mind to what s/he had at some earlier point of life, s/he has effectively forgotten intervening states, in which case it would not be experienced as repetitive.
1.13.10.4.1. Pro: Quality of experiences decay over time as people build up tolerances to dopamine. Just as drug addicts are always chasing their first high, the thousandth time you smell the flowers will never compare to your first time.
1.13.10.4.1.1. Con: The ability to forget is a valuable skill in a world where information is available instantaneously. There is no longer any need to keep detailed information about experiences or procedures in wet memory when they can be stored elsewhere and retrieved to be re-experienced or performed again much later, even once neural connections involved have atrophied.
1.13.10.4.1.1.1. Con: The ability to forget is not absolute \(You still detain information\), does not solve the issue \(you will still repeat infinite times the same thing\) and you'll eventually reach a point where your entire memory is filled with "the best memories" and everything else will be dull.
Mind Downloading is not science yet.
1.13.10.4.2. Con: The combination of states of mind and experiences is still limited, not infinite.
1.14. Pro: Becoming immortal through science makes it more easy for people to let go of religious faith.
1.14.1. Pro: In order to mature as a species, it is necessary to move past religious faith.
1.15. Pro: If we value personal freedom, the right to keep living is the greatest freedom possible.
1.15.1. Con: People are seeking a balance between freedom and meaning. A meaningful life is only achieved by coming to terms with one's own limitations, like mortality. Therefore, an immortal life would be meaningless.
1.15.1.1. Con: Not all people seek balances of anything. Most of humans are just happy to be alive now.
1.15.1.2. Pro: According to [Weber's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weber–Fechner_law), the experience of an eternal life, or even a longer life would not be more meaningful. For every moment we experience, less impact/influence that experience has on our life.
1.15.2. Pro: -> See 1.7.
1.15.3. Con: In a society where everyone lives indefinitely, the right to die might be a greater freedom.
1.15.4. Con: The greatest freedom is the freedom to choose, including the right to die.
1.15.4.1. Con: The right to choose to die is another right that does not exclude the right to live.
1.15.4.2. Pro: Becoming immortal is an option. It does not necessarily exclude a possible decision for self-euthanasia in the future. It doesn't say that if you body is immortal, that is - immune to aging, it will survive a severe car crash, for example. To become immortal gives you thus more options. So there is no reason why one would reject the option of being immortal - it is not an obligation, you don't have to stay this way.
1.15.5. Con: Freedom can only be achieved when it doesn't interfere with other people's freedom, in that case it becomes a privilege. If your infinite lifespan influences other people's lives \(and it will, just think about the resources needed to maintain the whole Immortal population alive forever\), then it's not a right, it's indirect oppression of everyone else.
1.16. Pro: We wouldn't have to deal with the death of our loved ones.
1.16.1. Con: Death is a part of life, Learning to deal with loss, accepting it, losing ones parents for example, is part of what shapes your character. It is a part of our coming of age process.
1.16.1.1. Con: Death is a part of life today, it doesn't have to be in the future.
1.16.2. Con: Without having to deal with the death of loved ones, we would become less sympathetic and out of touch.
1.16.2.1. Pro: Love is intensified by knowing how fragile life is. Without mortality time spent together will appear less precious and we could lose the most intense feelings for one another.
1.16.3. Con: For many people, their loved ones extend beyond humans and include pets too.
1.16.3.1. Con: Without being mortal we already have to deal with the death of our pets because we usually outlive them.
1.16.4. Pro: -> See 1.7.
1.16.5. Con: Never having to let go, we might become overly possessive of the people we are close to.
1.16.6. Pro: If the technology to extend life is available and a dying person wants it, it would be unethical to refuse them.
1.16.7. Con: Immortality does not mean that death is not possible, but that old age would not exist as a disease. Therefore the claim is not correct, loved ones could still die.
1.16.8. Con: Having no experience with loved-ones-dying-through-aging to teach us the grief process, violent accidental deaths will take a heavier toll on living peoples' psyches.
1.16.8.1. Con: We would have more time to deal with those issues as we will have more people around us that could support us.
1.16.8.2. Con: Violent accidental deaths could still happen early in a person's life.