Discussion Title: If We Assume That Free Will Does Not Exist, Is It Better To Act As If It Does?

1. Assuming that free will does not exist, it is better to act as if it does.
1.1. Con: If free will does not exist a person would not be able to choose to act is if it did \(or did not\) exist.
1.1.1. Con: The presence or absence of choice does not make a belief more or less productive, which renders choice irrelevant.
1.1.1.1. Con: But if we do not have free will, we cannot choose what beliefs we have anyway. So it may be true that one belief is more “productive” than another, but we don’t have the ability to choose the more productive one.  We’ll choose the one we’re destined to choose.
1.1.2. Con: The capacity to choose isn’t required for it to be good or bad to act as though we have free will.
1.1.2.1. Con: Without free will there is no good or bad. There is only the inevitable. A thing can not be better or worse if there is no other way it can be.
1.1.2.1.1. Con: The freedom of an action has no relevance over its consequences - e.g. you could program a robot to save people from harm; it would have no freedom and still do "good".
1.1.2.1.1.1. Con: The "good" in this scenario is done by the person or group that created the robot, not by the robot itself. The robot is not a moral actor in any sense since it would've followed "evil" programming as well. If the person or group likewise had no autonomy, then they are just as incapable of doing good as the robot.
1.1.2.1.2. Con: The inevitability of a system \(e.g., a human being, societal structure, etc.\) being in particular states as it evolves does nothing to render all qualitative features of that system indistinct, relative to one another. If moral determinations are features of human mental or social systems, the inevitability of such systems reaching certain states does not make null those determinations.
1.1.2.1.2.1. Con: The inevitability of an action does affect whether or not moral determinations can be made. If free will does not exist, morality cannot exist since it is dependent on an individual's ability to choose a moral action.
1.1.2.2. Con: It is impossible to measure the moral value of an impossible thing
1.1.2.2.1. Con: Insofar as it is possible to behave as though free will exists and to make moral evaluations of behavior, it’s possible to make a moral evaluation of behaving as though free will exists.
1.1.2.2.1.1. Con: -> See 1.1.2.1.2.1.
1.1.3. Con: If free will did/does not exist, yet as a species we are able to plausibly posit it's existence, something must create or allow for the illusion of free will, and hence the illusion of choice.
1.1.3.1. Con: This does not refute the point of the parent argument.
1.1.4. Pro: -> See 1.1.2.1.
1.2. Con: The best way to act \(from a self-interested perspective\) in a Universe with free will is very different than the best way to act in a Universe without free will.  So you should definitely not act as if free will exists if it doesn’t.
1.3. Pro: Broad acceptance that free will does not exist would lead to a search for meaning and reason, likely leading people back to religions which held them back for centuries.
1.3.1. Con: This is unlikely, as a belief in free will is integral to most major religions.
1.3.2. Pro: If there is broad acceptance that free will does not exist, it is proof that many people do not hold rational beliefs, since the proof that free will does not exist, also does not exist.
1.4. Con: Willingly accepting the delusion of free will sets a dangerous precedent which may allow for other delusions to take root.
1.4.1. Con: Given the accepted delusions in political life, accepting the existence of free will will not have a significant impact.
1.4.1.1. Pro: People already believe [Trump](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/12/14/opinion/sunday/trump-lies-obama-who-is-worse.html) even though is stating false facts frequently. Compared to an acceptance of free will this acceptance of competency is having practical implications.
1.5. Con: If free will doesn't exist, you don't need to act as it does, as destiny happens while you think you are controlling it, happens because of how you are: your decisions on a certain situation will be one and onlly because of your nature - that cannot be changed in 1 sec. So just be yourself anyway. \[[pt.wikipedia.org](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%89dipo)\]
1.6. Pro: Morality requires agency, because "good" and "evil" generally require intent. Without agency, that intent cannot be the product of moral character.
1.6.1. Con: 'Good' and 'evil' do not necessarily require intent. Most 'evil' people, historically, would have believed themselves to be doing good, or at the very least would feel their actions justifiable.
1.6.1.1. Con: It's virtually impossible to say whether people who do great good or great evil believe that they possess free will.
1.7. Pro: Current human understanding seems to rule out the possibility of actually deserving the consequences of our behavior.  But punishing bad behavior, and rewarding good behavior, still 'works' and still serves social well-being.
1.7.1. Con: Free will is often seen to legitimise retribution as part of justification for punishments. Given free will does not exist, punishments may be distributed on false bases if we act as if it does.
1.8. Pro: It is dangerous to spread the idea that humans do not have agency, as this would influence others to abandon attempts at good behavior or virtue.
1.8.1. Con: This seems unnecessarily fatalistic; people can still be inclined towards goodness without free will being a factor.
1.8.1.1. Pro: True: there seems no major belief system, including secular systems, which is absent of altruism.
1.8.1.2. Con: It may be easier to encourage goodness when the burden of choice is placed on people. Even if people are capable of being good without it, the idea of responsibility adds incentive to goodness.
1.8.2. Pro: Some cultures instill fatalism in people, or a fatalistic attitude about life.
1.8.2.1. Pro: A consequence of fatalism sometimes is apathy or laziness, which can be [deadly](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Proverbs+6%3A10-11&version=NIV).
1.9. Pro: It is impractical/impossible for people to live their lives as if free will did not exist.
1.9.1. Pro: "I have noticed even people who claim everything is predestined, and that we can do nothing to change it, look before they cross the road." [Stephen Hawking.](https://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/stephen_hawking_393342)
1.9.2. Pro: Even if the future is predestined, it is still subjectively unknown. We have no other option than to make decisions based on uncertain future.
1.10. Con: People in general act with unexamined autonomy regardless of their beliefs, so it makes no difference.
1.11. Pro: If we believe we have free will, we can lay claim to our successes and achievements. It emotionally justifies work, suffering, etc.
1.11.1. Pro: If we believe there is no free will, there is no reason to improve bad situations as they are not under our control.
1.11.1.1. Con: People still feel empathy towards others, regardless of whether free will exists or not. Even if control is an illusion, it still means that alleviating someone's suffering is worthwhile.
1.11.2. Pro: The ability to take responsibility for our actions enables us to learn from our mistakes beyond our biological instincts.
1.11.2.1. Pro: The fact that humans are innately biased to believe and often want to believe they have free will suggests this might have had an evolutionary advantage
1.11.3. Con: Belief in free will also comes with blame, guilt, and the suffering and negative emotions those can entail and that can linger on for far more time that is justified by the actions that caused them.