Discussion Title: In case Aliens exist: Should we say hello?

1. In case aliens exist, we should say hello.
1.1. Pro: We greet pets when arriving home; saying hello to aliens would be similar. We humans are the most superior creatures in the universe, because we are created in the image of God. Any alien would be like an animal. A lower creature.
1.1.1. Con: We are not most superior creatures nor ever will be.
1.1.1.1. Con: There is no way to affirm we are not the most advanced, as we cannot affirm the opposite.
1.1.2. Con: We greet pets, but we don't greet wasps, or red ants. And if you do, great chances they'll attack you. And their type of society and behavior might get well be the alien type
1.2. Pro: Yes. Alien life would be friendly and help us with technology.
1.3. Pro: If we were to instantaneously create a peace agreement after greeting the said extra-terrestrial species in a friendly manner then things would be ok. Our cultures and technologies could advance and/or merge. Making contact is a risk though, they could be hostile, so we must tread as respectfully and carefully as possible.
1.4. Con: If more technologically advanced civilizations exist in the universe, there has to be a reason for them not to contact us or search for alien life. [\(Wikipedia: Fermi Paradox - It's Dangerous to Communicate\)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fermi_paradox#It_is_dangerous_to_communicate)
1.5. Con: Contacting an alien lifeform carries many unpredictable risks, some of them might lead to the extinction of our entire civilization.
1.6. Con: No. Alien life would seek to harm or completely destroy humanity.
1.6.1. Pro: Everyone would finally be forced to work together to fight a common enemy.
1.6.2. Pro: There's actually a huge lack of humanity and morality, an alien invasion would hopefully invoke self reflection. If won, we'd likely be an entirely different society from there on out.
1.6.3. Con: There is no evidence for this.
1.6.4. Con: Aliens would know humans exist even without us saying hello.
1.6.5. Pro: Hello might be interpreted as a sign of aggression.
1.7. Pro: Saying hello would be a symbolic gesture that helps humans cope with the fact that aliens exist.
1.7.1. Con: If we found out Aliens existed, truly, and that they were more powerful than us, we would not be coping very well.
1.8. Con: Humans would disagree which language or cultural customs to use.
1.8.1. Con: Then perhaps it would be worth trying to come to some type of worldwide consensus.