Discussion Title: Indian Languages need to be saved

1. Indian languages need to saved.
1.1. Pro: Having many different languages is beneficial as their interaction make them grow in complexity and richness.
1.1.1. Con: Interaction and intermixing leads to convergence of the languages which eventually leads to the natural death of one of the languages.
1.2. Pro: Certain emotions/thoughts can be expressed more lucidly in one language than others, so losing a language might mean losing that expressions.
1.3. Con: Preserving endangered languages offer nothing more than sentimental value and caters to the literary niche.
1.3.1. Con: Then this whole argument can be stopped if learning a language only offers sentimental value, let’s all unlearn our languages and learn only English then
1.4. Pro: Indian languages reflect the ethos of the people from different parts of India and their local culture
1.4.1. Pro: Will help keep alive native cultures
1.4.2. Pro: Will help keep alive pluralism
1.4.3. Pro: Will help preserve local customs and cultures
1.4.4. Pro: Will help us learn from each other
1.4.5. Pro: Offers us sharper language skills as it makes most Indians speak a minimum of two languages
1.4.6. Pro: Creates a richer canvas of words and expressions we can borrow from
1.4.7. Pro: Learning languages gives access to historic content
1.4.8. Con: none
1.5. Con: It would lead to school children being forced to put significant effort in mastering a language which wouldn't come in useful later in life for most of them.
1.5.1. Con: Same holds true for learning Hindi which is utterly useless for a non Hindi person
1.6. Pro: Certain sounds such as the [Retroflex lateral flap](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retroflex_lateral_flap) \(e.g. The 'il' in Tamil, The "la" in Malayalam\) are available only in a few languages such as Tamil, Odia, Malayalam and Marathi and cannot be reproduced in any other languages.
1.7. Con: Having one standardized language across the country allows for more efficient bureaucracy.
1.8. Con: Having a unified language makes communication easier.
1.8.1. Con: When English is the most used communication language which more and more people are learning there is no need add another language. English is enough
1.9. Pro: True representation of 'Unity in Diversity'
1.9.1. Con: Nothing
1.10. Pro: India's pluralism is its beauty. And that can be kept alive only when Indian languages are alive
1.10.1. Pro: There is a beautiful story behind the origin of every language. Let the story go on. The human brain needs us to respect the creation of every regional and sub-regional language.
1.10.2. Con: Multi-languages create differences