Discussion Title: Is Adultery Ethical?

1. It's always immoral to sleep with a married person.
1.1. Pro: You could be ruining someone's marriage.
1.1.1. Con: A one-night stand is unlikely to be detected.
1.1.1.1. Con: For it to be undetected, the partner would have to lie about it. Given the circumstances, lying could eventually make the problem worse and could be seen as immoral itself
1.1.2. Con: When a partner is asking you for sex, it's arguably them ruining their marriage.
1.1.3. Con: The married partners could have an open marriage, so sleeping with one of them would only be adultery on paper, not morally.
1.1.3.1. Con: It's impossible to verify this without asking the spouse, so you should assume that they don't have an open marriage.
1.1.3.1.1. Con: This suggests the imposition of a duty to ascertain the relationship status of one's partners.
1.1.4. Pro: This can cause serious emotional distress to both people involved in the marriage. Causing other people emotional stress is immoral.
1.2. Con: It might be a valuable experience to have sex with a married person.
1.2.1. Con: It is no more 'valuable' than any other sexual or romantic relationship.
1.2.1.1. Con: Sexual relationships laden with traces of taboo can be more fun and more exciting, and thus more valuable than a typical sexual relationship.
1.2.2. Pro: Some married couples allow or encourage their partner to engage in extramarital sex, which can result in increased happiness and/or sexual health for both of them.
1.3. Con: No. Another person's marriage has nothing to do with you.
1.3.1. Pro: Someone's personal moral obligation to someone else does not bind you at all. You cannot be culpable for him/her breaching it. So far as you are not forcing someone married into sexual intercourse, the person has free will and outmost personal responsibility for his/her actions. Thus, you cannot breach a moral code since there is no moral obligation binding you to refrain from touching the married person. The latter is bound but it is purely his/her responsibility.
1.3.2. Con: This would be true, but often, the 'other woman' is labelled a homewrecker, and is often subjected to the worst elements of abuse from others. As such, it can be common sense, and morally defensible, to be conscious of another person's marriage.
1.3.3. Pro: Because the other person's marriage has nothing to do with you, you are not responsible for their decisions regarding this marriage. If they decide to sleep with someone outside of their marriage, that's their choice, not yours.
1.4. Con: It's possible the person's spouse won't mind.
1.4.1. Pro: Polyamory is becoming [more](http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20160623-polyamorous-relationships-may-be-the-future-of-love) commonplace, hence if all parties communicate their wants and desires, having extramarital sex is moral.
1.4.1.1. Con: "Extramarital sex" approved of by the non-adulterating partner creates an "open relationship," whereas a polyamorous relationship is defined by multiple people existing in a single relationship. Adultery in that context can still take place if one person in the relationship has romantic or sexual relations with someone outside of that relationship.
1.4.1.2. Con: Commonplace doesn't equal moral. History has shown numerous times that majority opinion is not always the best. Once almost universally accepted and practised things are now considered immoral and vice versa.
1.4.2. Pro: Some couples find that one or both of them are not completely fulfilled romantically or sexually, and agree to and open relationship in which having such relations outside of their relationship is accepted, resulting in increased happiness and preserving the stability of the partnership.
1.4.3. Con: Basing morality on a subjective opinion of one or two persons results in a definition that renders the term useless.
1.4.3.1. Con: Subjective opinions are still relevant if we base morality in this case on the harm created. If the non-adulterous spouse doesn't mind, or actively encourages adultery, then arguably the most significant supposed harm of adultery doesn't exist. Therefore, those subjective opinions make the adultery moral.
1.4.3.2. Con: Morality itself is subjective, when in a context with only two individuals, the subjective opinion of those two individuals is enough for them to consider the morality of their situation and behaviour for themselves
1.5. Pro: If your intention is to destroy the other person's relationship and hurt the other persons wife/husband and you know your actions will lead to this, then yes, it is immoral.
1.6. Pro: The rule not to commit adultery is one of the Ten Commandments.
1.6.1. Con: This is only relevant if you are religious.
1.6.2. Con: Not everyone is a Christian, much less a practicing one.
1.6.2.1. Con: In at least some branches of Christian thought, the rule that adultery is wrong applies to everybody, not just practicing Christians.
1.6.2.1.1. Con: Religious view of morality should only applies to those sharing them. Enforcing one’s own view of morality on others is disrespectful therefore immoral.
1.6.3. Con: The Ten Commandments are not necessarily applicable to all situations in modern-day life.
1.7. Pro: Yes; even if you're not responsible for the married person's choices, helping someone to do something wrong is wrong.
1.7.1. Con: The moral choice of what is wrong or right is not objective.
1.7.1.1. Pro: For example, a person may feel underappreciated in their relationship. Helping someone to feel desired, desirable, and even loved is arguably not wrong.
1.7.1.1.1. Con: If someone feels loved and desired by you murdering someone else then that wouldn't be a good thing.
1.7.1.1.1.1. Con: Murder results in significantly greater and unreasonable harm that adultery does not. I.E. the benefit of a murder is outweighed by the enormous cost of it; adultery is less clear.
1.7.1.1.2. Pro: This can be especially true if the marriage was not really a choice.
1.7.2. Con: This assumes that the married person is necessarily doing something wrong by sleeping with someone other than their spouse, which isn't necessarily true and certainly isn't always the case.
1.7.3. Con: If you know someone is married, you shouldn't sleep with them, because there is a high probability their marriage will be ruined as a result, even if it's possible it won't be.
1.7.3.1. Pro: Even if they say "my spouse won't find out" or "my spouse won't mind," you can't be sure that is the true.
1.7.3.1.1. Con: You can always ask.
1.7.3.2. Con: -> See 1.7.3.1.1.
1.7.3.3. Pro: If it's not wrong to sleep with married person if you don't know that they're married, then it is not always wrong to sleep with a married person.
1.8. Con: Adultery isn't wrong because monogamy is flawed.
1.8.1. Con: Even if monogamy is flawed, enabling someone to commit actions which may emotionally harm their spouse \(who believes they are in a monogamous relationship\) is immoral.
1.8.2. Pro: Open relationships and polygamy are growing trends; adultery becomes redundant in such circumstances.
1.8.2.1. Con: Adultery is still possible: it would still be sex with someone outside of the relationship\(s\)/partnerships of an open or polygamous relationship.
1.8.2.1.1. Pro: Those in open relationships tend to have [rules of engagement](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/gracie-x/is-it-possible-to-cheat-i_b_7608142.html) that are agreed between the central couple; cheating is still possible and equally upsetting.
1.8.2.2. Pro: Love should be shared freely, not only inside socially cemented situations/relationships.
1.8.2.3. Pro: Love is different from sex, which means that one could share new sex experiences with different people but still love their partners.
1.8.3. Pro: Someone can't agree to not fall in love with another person.
1.8.3.1. Con: Just because people are in love does not mean they have the right to lack impulse control, especially when a marriage is at stake
1.9. Con: It's possible not to know that someone is married.
1.9.1. Pro: Not knowing the marital status of someone can be tricky. Many cultures don't have any representation or mark someone as married.
1.10. Con: There is nothing wrong with sleeping with a married person when their partner is okay with it. However, it is immoral to sleep with a person in a relationship when their partner is not okay with it or where the expectation is such that they will not do that.
1.10.1. Pro: Breaking trust in a relationship is a form of misinformation, which puts it in the same category of actions such as scamming or child manipulation.
1.10.1.1. Pro: [Any action can be made harmful when there is a lack of knowledge or consent.](https://www.kialo.com/good-and-evil-is-informed-consent-the-determining-factor-of-morality-21075/21075.0=21075.1+21075.3)
1.11. Pro: Sex should be limited to married couples.
1.11.1. Con: Sex outside of a relationship is an enjoyable and normal experience; there is no reason to stop those who wish to from enjoying sex wherever they can find it.
1.11.2. Con: This is an archaic view that is being gradually eroded as society develops.
1.11.3. Pro: Many people still firmly believe in, and agree with, the concept of no-sex-before-marriage.
1.11.3.1. Con: The majority of people think sex before marriage is [not wrong at all](http://www.thearda.com/quickstats/qs_120.asp)
1.11.4. Con: Even if we assume the moral standard of "sex only in marriage," even that sex isn't necessarily ethical; Adult-child marriages are still legal in many places, so sex in those cases would be pedophilia, which is highly unethical. Therefore, marriage is not a great standard for sexual morality.