Discussion Title: Is Astrology a valid practice?

1. Astrology is a valid practice.
1.1. Pro: Astrology is a fun practice which brings joy and entertainment to people's lives.
1.1.1. Con: Astrological reading is rarely free. Someone is making money off that supposed joy and entertainment by deceiving peoples beliefs
1.1.2. Con: If presented as entertainment content with no scientific validity in its predictions, this argument might be relevant. However, in its widest practice, Astrology is depicted as providing accurate information on character, behavior and future events, which misleads its consumers into believing it is something more than pure fiction.
1.1.3. Pro: Magazines and lifestyle blogs that provide light reading continue to include astrological readings in their publications, which suggests that it is the type of thing the people enjoy reading about, without laying too much gravitas on its predications.
1.1.4. Con: This does not make it scientifically valid.
1.2. Pro: The persistence of astrology over the years suggests that it adds value to people's lives.
1.2.1. Pro: If the astrological readings did not prove to be true, then people would have stopped reading them long ago.
1.2.1.1. Con: The fact people believe their astrological readings mapped on to their real life does not confirm astrology's predictive power.
1.2.1.1.1. Pro: [Confirmation bias](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Confirmation_bias) leads people to believe astrological readings when they fit with their beliefs.
1.2.1.1.2. Pro: Astrological claims are purposely written in a generalized manner.
1.2.1.1.2.1. Pro: Astrologers use social biases like the "[Barnum effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barnum_effect)" to make you believe that they know all kind of things about you.
1.2.2. Con: Persistence of belief does not speak to it's credibility.
1.2.2.1. Con: Persistence of belief does analytically speak of its credibility \(credo = I believe\), but not of its validity.
1.2.3. Con: Rape adds value to the life of a rapist, that doesn't mean we should be validating rape as culturally acceptable.
1.3. Pro: Astrology is based on empirical observation of the movements and relative positions of celestial objects.
1.3.1. Con: Since Astrology began, in the [2nd millennium BC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astrology), the axial precession of the earth has changed, meaning our star signs are different from the actual ones.
1.3.2. Con: This would be relevant if Astrology aimed simply at describing these movements and positions in rigorous way. However, Astrology also suggests that these movements and positions have a direct and systematic connection to character, behavior and human events in a way which is not only broad enough to be uninformative, but is also not observed in the same sense that the movements of celestial bodies are.
1.4. Con: Astrology simply gives the illusion of having the power of prediction through manipulation.
1.4.1. Pro: Astrologers use retroactive the [hindsight bias](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hindsight_bias) in order to prove that they had accurate predictions.
1.4.2. Pro: Astrologers use [cold reading techniques](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cold_reading) such as high-probability guesses to fool their clients into thinking they know more about them than they really do.
1.4.3. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.1.1.
1.4.4. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.1.2.
1.5. Con: Astrology is a dangerous practice which makes people vulnerable to being exploited.
1.5.1. Pro: People can be duped out of a lot of money by astrologers.
1.6. Pro: There is evidence that Astrological readings are true.
1.6.1. Pro: Rap heavyweights are statistically more likely to be Gemini or Virgo, the two signs ruled by the planet of words and communication Mercury. Yes there are outliers like Drake \(Scorpio\) and Jay Z \(Sag\), but Gemini’s Kanye Kendrick Tupac Biggie even Bob Dylan won Nobel prize for poetry \(words\) \(similar to rappers in that lyrics are his forte\) these are Geminis and are more prominent on best rappers lists than other signs.
1.6.1.1. Con: If all people who don't fit the rule are simply disregarded as 'exceptions' or 'outliers', then Astrology could claim truth on anything at all.
1.6.2. Con: This claim is substantially unsupported.
1.7. Con: Astrology cannot foresee future events with enough reliability to be practical or useful.
1.8. Con: Astrology is not backed up by credible science.
1.8.1. Con: Astrology not being a science has nothing to do with its validity.
1.8.1.1. Pro: For example, if I say "I am happy" this could be valid, whereas it is not a scientific statement.
1.8.1.1.1. Con: Happiness can be scientifically evaluated, as it is a cognitive process.
1.8.1.2. Con: A practice doesn't have to be a science on its own to be proven or disproved by the scientific method.
1.8.1.3. Pro: There are some things in the world that cannot be explained by science. All this proves is the limits of our human understanding, rather than the limits of this world.
1.8.1.4. Pro: In the future, we might be able to discover new sciences that up to now are still unknown. Astrology might be valid until that moment.
1.8.1.5. Con: No, that has everything to do with its validity.
1.8.2. Pro: Multiple controlled scientific studies have disproven the falsifiable claims made by astrology.
1.8.2.1. Pro: A [double-blind test](https://www.nature.com/articles/318419a0) carried out by S. Carlson revealed that predictions based on natal astrology were no better than chance.