Discussion Title: Is a Human that Eats of the Minotaur a Cannibal?

1. A human that eats of the Minotaur is a cannibal.
1.1. Con: Cannibalism as a human act is fundamentally different from zoological cannibalism, being complicated as it is by Imperialist misconceptions of the wider world. Without an accepted, common definition for human cannibalism, it could not be called cannibalism with any force.
1.2. Con: The Minotaur is not human and therefore the act would not be cannibalism.
1.2.1. Pro: Because the actor viewed the Minotaur as a monster, not as a human, it would not be cannibalism.
1.2.1.1. Con: It may be a monster, but there are human beings who do monstrous things, and could be called monsters: as such, it could still be cannibalism.
1.2.2. Pro: Because society viewed the Minotaur as a monster, not as a human or even quasi-human, the act would not be cannibalism.
1.2.2.1. Con: Though relationships do contribute to meanings, it is clear that the actor \(the one doing the eating\) may have a substantially different view of the subject \(the Minotaur\) than others.

The definition of cannibalism is external of the actor. It is not the actor's understanding, but the wider understanding that drives the definition.

If society later understands Minotaurs to be a kind of a human, then the act would be cannibalism.
1.2.2.2. Con: Social definitions change over time, imparting different meaning to biological concepts or realities, making this claim unsupportable in absolute terms.
1.2.2.2.1. Pro: This is true and evidenced in the view of women and their participation in sports. Women may still be viewed as physical weaker or slower than men, but the extent to which that is thought to be true has been in sharp decline for decades, as athletic attainment among women has increased, changing the gendered notions of athleticism.
1.2.2.3. Pro: Cannibalism is an act that can only be understood relative to human-ness and the relationship of the human actor and the eaten subject. The human eating of the Minotaur would view it as a monster and not as a human.
1.2.2.3.1. Con: -> See 1.2.2.1.
1.2.3. Con: The Minotaur's mother was a human. Though the Minotaur was not 100% human, he was OF humans and was, himself, a part of the larger human family tree. This being the case, it would be cannibalism, as a human would be eating some human in eating the Minotaur.
1.2.3.1. Con: Despite being 'of' humans, it is not sufficient to merit it being called cannibalism; the Minotaur is not described as sufficiently human-like for that.
1.2.3.1.1. Con: The minotaur could speak and demonstrated reasoning faculties.
1.3. Pro: -> See 1.2.3.
1.4. Con: If a human eats a human body part of the Minotaur, he is a cannibal. If he eats a bovine part of it, he isn't.
1.4.1. Con: A fundamental sameness exists across its entire body by virtue of it being of one body, indivisble.
1.4.1.1. Con: Being a cannibal derives from eating human flesh so, if some parts of a Minotaur are made of beef, eating them doesn't make the eater a cannibal. In the same way, eating human hair is not cannibalism because, although hair is a part of human body, it's not properly made of meat.