Discussion Title: Is Christianity Compatible With Feminism?

1. Christianity is compatible with feminism.
1.1. Con: The Bible says little about transgender individuals, but they are broadly condemned by many Christians; as such, it is not feminist.
1.1.1. Con: If we take Christianity to mean the teachings of Christ then the words of Christ speak of love primarily. We can assume that his actions \(proclaimed in the Bible as a guiding principal\) ought to be the authority of the faith system. Addressing transgenderism, he went into the homes of people not accepted by the larger religious society, made friends, without judging or asking for conversion.
1.1.2. Pro: Actually the Bible has a lot to say about it. The Bible doesn't recognize that people can change genders \(sex\),and it has much to say about the conduct of men as opposed to women \(Titus 2, Corinthians 11\). It says that men and women need to dress according to their sex \(Duet 22:5\). Transgenderism, no matter how you might personally feel about it, is not compatible from a Biblical/ Christian perspective if one actually follows the text.
1.1.2.1. Con: Transgenderism has only really been recognised in the last century or so. Many Christians now support LGBTQI people, as they don't take everything in the Bible completely literally.
1.1.2.2. Con: You can be transgender and Christian - if you were talking about how the Old Testament discriminates against transgender people, then you have a problem with Judaism, as Jewish people are the ones that follow the Old Testament, not Christians.
1.1.2.3. Con: The Bible was write by different people with theirs own thoughts about what Christianity is, that is subjective. When we analyze the source of information that is Jesus Christ and his deeds, that is objective and the real Christianity. We should separate the subjective Christianity from the objective Christianity, even to The Bible.
1.2. Pro: Christianity supports monogamy, which is highly compatible with feminism.
1.2.1. Pro: Christianity supports monogamy for both men and women. It stops men from cheating on women which is good for women, and therefore compatible with feminism.
1.2.1.1. Con: In the given example men are in the more powerful position. So that would not be categorized as feminism.
1.2.1.1.1. Pro: This suggests that feminism is somehow "about men cheating on women".
1.2.2. Con: A monogamous marriage is no insurance against misogyny, unfortunately.
1.2.2.1. Con: Nothing could insure against misogyny
1.2.3. Con: The fact that a specific tenet is compatible with feminism does not make a religion as a whole compatible.
1.2.3.1. Con: The fact that there are multiple Pro claims in this debate shows that there is more than one tenet of Christianity that supports compatibility with feminism
1.2.4. Con: Monogamy is not necessarily feminist. Some feminists support [polygamy](https://sputniknews.com/viral/201710061058009812-sweden-feminism-polygamy/) or [open relationships](https://jezebel.com/5339211/is-non-monogamy-a-feminist-relationship-choice).
1.2.4.1. Con: Monogamy is for both sexes. If men were to be able to have many wives or if women were to be able to have many husbands the argument could be made that Christianity is against feminism, as it would be unequal. The fact that the teaching is that each should have the same amount \(one partner\) is what makes Christianity and feminism compatible.
1.2.5. Con: Christianity also outlines when it is [morally justifiable to cut off your wife's hand](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Deuteronomy+25%3A11-12&version=NIV).
1.2.5.1. Pro: True Christians believe that the Bible is literally true, and it says that women are the property of the men in their lives and should have no self agency. This is antithetical to feminism.
1.2.5.1.1. Con: It is not true that Bible literalism is the one true form of Christianity. Nobody can say that people who consider the Bible to be metaphorical aren't really Christians.
1.2.5.1.1.1. Pro: The Bible itself does not assert that it has to be read literally.
1.2.5.1.2. Pro: The bible states in Genesis 2:18-24 that Adam needed a helper, so Eve was created from Adam's rib. It can be inferred from this that a woman was created to help a man, and that she is a lesser being because she was merely formed from a small piece of man.
1.2.5.1.2.1. Con: There are other denominations of Christianity that believe that the first telling of the story of Adam and Eve \(in the King James Bible at least\) is the true telling, whereas the second version is included for comparison between the spiritual and material Man.
1.2.5.1.3. Con: To call only people that take the Bible absolutely literally 'true Christians' is discriminatory.
1.2.5.1.4. Con: A 'true' Christian is debatable. If it means a follower of Christ, his words and actions, then many who would identify this way do not always agree with a literal translation and certainly do not believe women are the property of men.
1.2.5.1.5. Pro: The Bible states that [a raped woman should marry her rapist and should pay her father fifty shekels of silver](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Deut+22%3A28-29&version=NASB).
1.2.5.1.5.1. Con: While it is horrible to expect the victim to be forced to marry her rapist, the purpose of this law is to make sure that if she is pregnant from the rape, that the man takes responsibility for his actions. In that culture, no one else would want a raped woman. This is to guarantee that someone at least takes care of her. The New Testament nullifies this law as well.
1.2.5.1.5.2. Con: Many of the Old Testament rules, \(detailed in books such as Deuteronomy\) are [no longer relevant to modern Christianity](https://jdgreear.com/blog/why-dont-we-follow-all-of-the-old-testament-laws/). For example the law forbidding eating shellfish.
1.2.5.1.6. Pro: The Christian Bible is full of comments which condemn women to a secondary state. For a Bible-following Christian, women wouldn't be equal to men and feminism would be anathema.
1.2.5.1.6.1. Pro: Christ reaffirmed this definition of marriage in Matthew 19:1-11. In Genesis we can see God Himself declaring that Adam shall rule over Eve, and so Christ did not repeal this law. Nor is this law under the Old Covenant, for the Old Covenant was not even made until Abraham. It's still applicable to us Christians.
1.2.5.1.6.2. Con: Non-evangelical New Testament [scholars generally believe](https://bible.org/seriespage/9-what-does-it-mean-not-teach-or-have-authority-over-men-1-timothy-211-15) that all three pastoral epistles \(1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, and Titus\) were written by an unknown person in Paul’s name long after he was dead. While this unknown author admired Paul and wanted to use his authority, he also contradicted Paul.
1.2.5.1.6.2.1. Pro: The “true Paul” taught that in Christ there is neither male nor female \([Galatians 3:28](https://netbible.org/bible/Galatians+3:28?ref=nbt)\).
1.2.5.1.6.3. Pro: Timothy 2:11-14: "A woman should learn in quietness and full submission. Do not permit a woman to teach or to assume authority over a man; she must be quiet. For Adam was formed first, then Eve. And Adam was not the one deceived; it was the woman who was deceived and became a sinner."
1.2.5.1.7. Con: True Christians follow Jesus.  Jesus went against culture and taught women the scriptures equally as men. They are central to the life of Christ. Christ’s birth, death and resurrection all feature stories of the faith of women surpassing that of men.
1.2.5.1.8. Con: Ephesians 5:22-33 does tell women to submit to their husbands, but also says that husbands should love their wives as Christ loved the Church and gave himself for it, and husbands are to love their wives as himself for they are united as one body.
1.2.5.1.8.1. Pro: This reveals the impossibility of following the Bible perfectly because it contradicts itself. This passage implores husbands to love their wives as themselves, and viewing someone as an equal is necessary to loving them as you would love yourself. This message of love and equality directly contradicts the passage telling women to submit to their husbands. Therefore, Christians must look for the deeper meanings in the bible that override specific passages. Feminism is part of a deeper meaning.
1.2.5.1.8.1.1. Con: There is no contradiction if we see submission in the light of Christ as the embodiment of submission. Christ by nature had authority and dominion overall yet chose sacrificial love. He laid himself down to put ahead of himself the betterment of others. This is the same image used to describe how husbands should behave. Both directives are the same message but worded differently however a patriarchal society used these versus to dominate women rather than to force themselves to submit in love.
1.2.5.1.9. Con: To read the Bible literally is to make a mistake in genre. The Bible is not a science textbook and it should not be read like one. In fact, it is even in poor taste to read science textbooks this way. About the only genre that should be taken literally word for word is a recipe book. Even then there is room for interpretation and substitutions. The proper genre the bible falls into is: a collection of faith stories & histories. As such, it is fraught with contradictions and different viewpoints.
1.2.5.1.9.1. Pro: A simple read-through of the Bible shows that this is the case. These writings were not intended to coalesce with each other but rather are the record of different communities in different times giving witness to God's presence. Consider that there are two creation stories: which is correct? Consider the history laid out by 1 and 2 Kings versus 1 and 2 Chronicles versus Judges. There are differences in the text that come from the perspective of the compiler of the narrative.
1.2.5.1.9.2. Pro: Take for instance, the gospel of John which says "I write these things so that you may believe" John 20:31, or Mark who says "this is the beginning of the good news of Jesus Christ." Mark 1:1 Statements like these clue us in to the genre of writing that makes up the bible. You don't start recipes "this is the beginning of the good news." So you should not read this like a recipe. Science text books do not care if you believe something. So you should not read this like a science text book.
1.2.5.1.9.3. Con: If it is true that the Bible is a genre of writing that contains many contradictions and different points of view, it is Procrustean to claim that the Bible supports or does not support feminism. It unfortunately does both. Often it leans sorely toward not supporting it.
1.2.5.1.9.4. Con: Large parts of the bible are clearly and explicitly prescriptive. Chapters of the old testament are a compendium of laws allegedly commanded by God, and these clearly command a non-feminist-compatible status of women in society.
1.2.5.1.10. Con: It could be compatible. It depends on whether Christianity takes the path that views the Bible as a never-ending story of progress towards greater love and compassion. Then the meek will inherit the earth and no group was more meek in Christ's time than women. If the literalists and legalists continue to lead Christians down the path of looking for reasons to punish and oppress based on Old Testament judgements, then it will not be compatible with any philosophy based on equality for all.
1.3. Con: -> See 1.2.5.1.
1.4. Con: All Abrahamic religions have a few verses that may venerate women, but majority of its laws and suggestions are condemnations, vilifying everything that a woman is and does, this includes Christianity.
1.5. Pro: Christianity is practiced in thousands of different ways and vast numbers of Christians understand that the Bible is both a divine inspiration and a book of its time with some of the same shortcomings as the time period in which it was written.
1.5.1. Pro: Christianity - residual Christianity, since that is what we have in the 21st Century - is only accommodating to feminism now because so much of its theology has been flattened out by time, strife, and wealth. Word for word, all religions are antithetical to equality; it is only when they are no longer the principal force in individuals' lives that they become more accepting.
1.5.1.1. Pro: Many interpretations of the Old Testament \(before Christ\) were adapted to our time. For example, the 500+ [laws of Moses](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/gs/law-of-moses?lang=eng). Christians won't have to follow many of them today.
1.5.2. Con: No religion is. People practice in various ways to best suit their various needs; so, a person can be a 'Christian Feminist' by ignoring the parts of their religion that conflict with and/or outright prevent equality.
1.5.2.1. Pro: Politicians who flout their Christianity insist that women are not allowed to make choices about their own body, such as whether or not to get an abortion. They say this decision to deny women the right to choose is because of their faith.
1.5.2.1.1. Con: Politicians in general are not a good example for representing religions, as they have ulterior agendas. Many right-wing politicians that are proudly 'Christian' do not live by the teachings of Christ Jesus.
1.5.2.1.2. Con: That is a commentary on those individuals and not the faith system they 'flout'.
1.5.2.2. Con: But by that reasoning, then all religions are compatible with feminism. Saying that no religion is compatible with feminism because you would have to ignore other parts of the religion doesn't make any sense, because religion is about the individual and how they live their lives, especially in relation to others.
1.5.2.3. Con: Regardless of one's beliefs in feminism, anytime you have to reinterpret a religious doctrine to make it compatible, you are no longer dealing with the original belief, but altering it. It is no longer the same belief as the those who originated it. It might be more palatable, but you have removed what most would call the authenticity from which its authority derives. And if all who follow it agree to just "ignore" that part then it is even more demeaning to its authority as well as blasphemous.
1.5.2.4. Pro: There are Christian feminists.
1.5.2.4.1. Pro: Christian feminists range from people like Barack Obama to [Mariana Thomson Folsom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mariana_Thompson_Folsom).
1.5.2.4.2. Con: Just as you can be gay and Christian, you can also be a feminist and Christian. One does not mean it supports the other.
1.5.2.4.3. Con: People have conflicting beliefs all the time - see [cognitive dissonance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cognitive_dissonance).
1.5.2.4.4. Con: This begs the question. Whether those feminists are truly being consistent with the tenets of Christianity is precisely the matter of debate. For the opposing viewpoint, such are only going to be seen as *nominal* Christians.
1.5.2.4.4.1. Pro: Belief in Christ supports the fact that everyone is equal and that you should love everyone. Some other Christians, however, may believe otherwise. The fact is, that there are so many versions of Christianity \(Catholicism, Protestant, Church of England, Christian Science\) that to say just one is the right one would be ignorant. You can be a devout Christian and a feminist, depending on which denomination you believe in.
1.5.2.4.5. Con: But there are also Christians who are not feminists, so this proves nothing.
1.5.2.4.5.1. Con: It does prove that Christianity is compatible with feminism. If it wasn't, there couldn't be Christian feminists.
1.5.3. Pro: Christianity is the most oft 'cherry-picked' Abrahamic religion. At its core \(fundamentals\), it is not.
1.5.4. Pro: Christianity and its many branches are based off varying interpretations of what is perceived as God's word. Among these interpretations can be the inclusiveness of feminism in the Christian agenda, as in principle, the definition of Christianity is flexible.
1.5.5. Con: The fact that some who identify as Christian selectively ignore parts of the bible does not prove that Christianity, as a doctrine, is compatible with feminism; it only demonstrates that some Christians can be feminists by selectively ignoring biblical teachings, which is already self evident.
1.5.5.1. Con: Christianity, as a religion, is supposed to be practised to better the lives of yourself and other around you. The fact that the Bible was written 2,000 years ago needs to be taken into account - we live in a modern society, where the rules are different. But 'Christian values' are inherently the same. "Finally, all of you, be like-minded, be sympathetic, love one another, be compassionate and humble."
1.5.5.2. Con: Doctrine by definition is "a belief or set of beliefs held and taught by a Church, political party, or other group". Going by that definition one must take modern popular practices and teachings into account rather than relying on literal interpretation which is practiced by very few.
1.6. Pro: -> See 1.5.2.4.
1.7. Con: -> See 1.5.2.
1.8. Con: The Bible does not allow women to own property or decide who they will marry.
1.8.1. Con: "She considers a field and buys it;
    with the fruit of her hands she plants a vineyard."
-Proverbs 31:16, speaking of the ideal woman, or the "Proverbs 31 woman"
1.8.2. Con: The Bible is split into Old and New Testaments. Christ's death on the cross nullified the Levitical Law of the Old Testament and began the New Testament. The new Testament does not create a governmental structure that allows or restrains people from buying property or choosing their marriage partner. This is done in Government, not religion. In the New Testament, we see people like Lydia who own their own businesses.
1.8.3. Pro: Deuteronomy 22:28-29: "If a man finds a girl who is a virgin, who is not engaged, and seizes her and lies with her and they are discovered, then the man who lay with her shall give to the girl’s father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall become his wife because he has violated her; he cannot divorce her all his days" quoted from the bible, supports the claim, as the girl has no say in the matter.
1.8.4. Con: The rules in the Bible regarding women's rights are mainly there because of the social status of women at the time. Jesus Christ often says that he does not agree with these teachings. As Christianity is based on the teachings of Jesus Christ, rather than solely the Bible, this should not reflect upon Christianity as a religion.
1.8.5. Con: This is not enforced in practice by many Christian communities.
1.8.5.1. Pro: This is also legal in Western society anyway.
1.8.6. Con: Women are given opportunity to reject a marriage in the Bible. This happens in [Genesis 24](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Genesis+24&version=LEB):58 with Rebekah: "they called Rebekah and said to her, “Will you go with this man?” And she said, “I will go.”" Although it can be granted that their ability to choose is obviously far more limited than the mens'.
1.8.6.1. Con: The fact that she was ostensibly given a choice does not change that, in practise, she may have been pressured into accepting whether she wished to or not.
1.9. Con: To be a true feminist, you have to stand up for all women including lesbian women. The Bible condemns lesbian women, and therefore is not feminist.
1.9.1. Con: Technically, the Bible doesn't condemn lesbians - only homosexual men. "If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman, both of them have committed a detestable act." Obviously, you should still not persecute homosexuality, but technically, the Bible is fine with homosexual women.
1.9.1.1. Con: Christianity being against homosexuality comes from the fact that the Son of God was the one speaking to Adam and Eve. In John 5:37 Christ says that no one has heard the Father. We also see in John 1 that Christ is the Word of God. the Son was the One who defined marriage to be only between man and woman with the woman having the lower role in Genesis.
1.9.2. Con: Feminists are not required to stand up for all women at all times. For example, feminists can readily condemn women guilty of crimes or evil acts. If one believes in sin, and that homosexuality is a sin, it's consistent for a Christian feminist to condemn a lesbian the same way a secular feminist might condemn a female criminal.
1.9.3. Pro: Marriage is defined as between man and woman, with the woman taking a submissive role. All sexual relations outside of marriage are also not allowed. Christ both defined marriage this way, and did not allow sexual relations outside of marriage.
1.9.4. Con: There are wide and varied opinions of homosexuality within the church, and within denominations, as the Bible contains scant mention. If the example of Christ is the leading principle, in addition to other debated verses throughout, then it is almost impossible to find any overt references to encounters with homosexual individuals leaving the search for a definitive interpretation deeply complex. There are no irrefutable concrete signposts for a singular consistent theology or praxis.
1.9.4.1. Pro: There is no passage or verse in the Bible where Jesus himself specifically condemns homosexual people.
1.10. Pro: Feminism is about freedom from male power over women and is not only compatible, but key, to Jesus's teachings as he is highly anti-power.
1.10.1. Pro: Christianity is centred around the teaching and calling of Jesus. Christians believe that many teachings within the old testament lead up to and prophecy the coming of Jesus. By placing him as the most important source of knowledge for he is believed to be God himself then Jesus' teachings would be assumed to be supreme above others in the Bible. This trumps the Old Testament's subjugating statements on women.
1.10.2. Pro: Mary Baker Eddy, the founder of Christian Science wrote in Science and Health with the Key to the Scriptures, "God is Divine Spirit, and man, the whole man, the male and the female of Spirit's creating, is not defined by gender, class, upbringing or nationality, but is spiritual."
1.10.3. Con: The true core message of the christian and all of the Judeo faiths is to always give glory to God, social justice is virtually irrelevant, it encourages slavery even from Jesus himself let alone other New testament and old testament authors. The primary Christian text also calls for women to be submissive to men repeatedly from it's inception and goes out of it's way to ensure women not speak in public or teach anything. It literally states the exact opposite from freeing women of men's power.
1.10.3.1. Pro: For women being submissive to men in all matters: Genesis 3:16, Ephesians 5:22-33, 1 Peter 3:1-7, 1 Timothy 2:11-14, 1 Corinthians 11:3-9, Colossians 3:18
1.10.3.2. Pro: For slavery: Titus 2:3-9, Leviticus 25:44-46, Exodus 21:2-21, Ephesians 6:5, 1 Timothy 6:1-2, Luke 12:47-48
1.10.4. Pro: There are a wide range of passages in the Bible that clearly encourage gender equality. Examples include [Gen 1.27](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Genesis+1&version=NIV) and [Gal. 3.28](http://biblehub.com/galatians/3-28.htm).
1.10.4.1. Pro: Paul wrote in Galatians 3:28, "There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus."
1.10.4.2. Pro: Christ himself was funded and followed by strong, financially independent female backers such as Mary Magdalene who had chosen that life. Though the disciples \(his twelve best friends/students\) followed Jesus regularly there's mention of women who formed the group and were also a part the mission. The fact they have mention, in name in several cases including Mary, is relevant. Christianity is modeled by its namesake and those who follow should by definition acknowledge female agency.
1.10.5. Pro: Christianity is defined as being "Christ like": Christ, on earth accepted women as equals in His dealings with them, including bringing them in to his inner circle.
1.10.5.1. Pro: He even dealt directly with women who were shunned by the culture of his time \(the woman with the issue of blood, prostitutes, the adulteress about to be stoned, the woman at the well\). These women were forgiven, and not shunned by Christ.
1.10.5.2. Pro: Jesus was also a feminist, essentially - he didn't care that Mary Magdelan was a prostitute, or that she had 'fallen'. He redeemed her and many Christians believe that she was the one referred to in the Bible as 'the beloved disciple'.
1.10.5.3. Pro: The core message of Christian faith is one of social justice and liberation for all. A world where the least in society are given preference. Where the stranger is welcome, enemies are welcome, and the powerless, the poor and the sinner are welcome. You can't read Jesus' teachings without that.
1.10.5.4. Pro: Christ did indeed help sinful women, but they repented and with the incident of the woman condemned to stoning, He told her to sin no more.
1.11. Pro: The fact that Christianity says to do unto others as you would have them do unto you is compatible with treating all people with equality. This is what feminism is all about.
1.11.1. Pro: The dictionary definition of feminism is "the advocacy of women's rights on the basis of the equality of the sexes." The definition of Christianity is "the religion based on the person and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth, or its beliefs and practices". Jesus supported equality of men and women, and so it follows that Christianity is compatible with feminism.
1.11.1.1. Pro: All instances of [Jesus Interacting with women](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jesus%27_interactions_with_women) tend to show that he was a feminist
1.11.1.2. Pro: There are many areas of the Bible that involve sexist ideas - but the Bible is also full of strong independent women who, especially in that era, stood up for themselves and introduced feminist ideas \(women such as Ruth, Naomi, Jesus's mother Mary, Mary Magdalene, and even though she was awful, Jezebel\).
1.11.1.3. Pro: Christianity is based on the teachings of Jesus. Although the Bible has a lot to offer in terms of religious guidance, \(many of the Psalms are uplifting and bring comfort in dark times\) it is not the sole basis of Christianity.
1.11.2. Con: The "[Golden Rule](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_Rule#Ancient_Egypt)" \(the principle of treating others as one would wish to be treated\) which is often attributed to Christianity, is actually far older.
1.11.2.1. Pro: Just because the idea is older than the religion does not mean it is not a part of that religion.
1.11.3. Con: The Bible has many exceptions to this rule, including when it is morally just to kill people.