Discussion Title: Is Calling out Privilege Pointless?

1. Calling out Privilege is Pointless
1.1. Con: Calling out privileges serves as driving for social change.
1.2. Con: Calling out privilege draws attention to contradictions between a society's values and it's actual practices.
1.2.1. Con: Calling it out is good; what happens after is the problem. Without a usable mechanism for correcting the imbalance, calling out privilege results in:

1\) Privileged parties feeling guilty for taking advantage of resources 'given' to them through no action of their own

2\) The belief - among non-privileged parties - that success in life was determined before birth \(and therefore no hard work should be done with the resources we do possess\)
1.2.2. Pro: Without attention, no change would occur.
1.3. Con: We live in a country that believes all men are created equal. [School Funding Disparities](https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2015/09/public-school-funding-and-the-role-of-race/408085/) If we don’t educate our children equally than exposing it is the only way we can move forward.
1.4. Pro: Simply calling out privilege does nothing to correct the structural advantages \(and disadvantages\) of societal power structures.
1.4.1. Con: Before one can take action on social problems, attention must first be called to it. Bringing awareness to issues of privilege is thus, a necessary first step.
1.4.1.1. Con: Attention doesn't necessarily need to be drawn on something before action can occur.
1.4.2. Pro: Calling out - and taking action on - privilege would be more useful than simply calling it out.
1.5. Con: Not all instances of people 'calling out' privileges \(e.g. unfair accumulation of wealth resulting in or from the harm of others or obtained unethically/illegally, political positions, having a wide social influence\) are inherently pointless as power and those who possess and/or wield it require checks & balances.
1.6. Pro: Blaming privilege creates a scapegoat for an individual's shortcomings.
1.6.1. Pro: When an individual feels that their shortcomings are due to their race, gender, or sexual orientation. It dissuades them from trying to improve themselves.
1.6.1.1. Con: There is no proof of this.
1.6.1.2. Pro: By not moving further in life, their children learn the same mindset, and continue a spiral into poverty and feelings of infallibility.
1.7. Pro: Calling out privilege serves no purpose in society.
1.7.1. Pro: No one benefits from accusing someone else of having an advantage in life.
1.7.2. Con: There are historical examples of the critique of privilege being a driver of significant social change. For example, the critique of the privileges of indulgences contributed to the Protestant Reformation, which led to far reaching social transformations in Europe.
1.7.3. Con: A counterexample would be to say that perhaps "Just calling out how kinds are privileged serves no purpose" or perhaps "Just calling out the injustice of slavery serves no purpose." How can a society change for the better if there is no one criticizing said society?
1.7.4. Pro: Privilege is used as a negative thing \("Your privilege is showing!"\) when it is, by definition, a good thing.  There is nothing to fix with privilege. If anything should be called out, it should be disadvantages.
1.8. Pro: In most cases, privilege is difficult to prove.
1.8.1. Pro: People of all races, genders, and sexual orientations can achieve the same goals.
1.8.1.1. Pro: In a free market system, no one cares enough to hold you back.
1.8.1.2. Pro: If you are the best fit for a job/position. You will be chosen, as the company/organization will be able to profit off of you the best.