Discussion Title: Is chivalry sexist?

1. [Chivalry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chivalry#Modern_manifestations_and_revivals) \(males behaving chivalrous nearly exclusively towards women\) is sexist. \([examples](https://aplus.com/a/23-behaviors-of-a-gentleman-for-2015)\)
1.1. Con: Chivalry is just an innocent tradition which we should preserve.
1.1.1. Con: A lot of traditions had an innocent past, but reinforced stereotypes and have thus been abolished.
1.1.2. Pro: Chivalrous behavior is often a part of courtship and flirting.
1.1.2.1. Con: This is hardly a defence; if gentlemanly behaviour is only being performed because the man wants the woman romantically, that does come across as very sexist.
1.1.2.2. Con: Gentlemanly behavior is not inherently conscious courting \(albeit it might be used as such\). It rather displays the qualities of a man, not only to ladies but also his male peers. Being a gentleman was historically closely tied to social status and can still signify a certain level of class.
1.1.2.3. Pro: Interacting with women in a gentleman way gives men the opportunity to interact with women that they otherwise would be too shy speaking to or interacting with.
1.1.2.3.1. Con: There is no reason why someone can be able to overcome shyness to be a gentleman and cannot do the same with polite small talk.
1.1.2.3.1.1. Con: The largest problem in chatting somebody up is the initial contact, not the small talk following later on and gentleman behavior makes a very easy first conversation starter, coupled with a polite gesture.
1.1.3. Pro: Chivalry is a nice courtesy that we need more in our world. It's the little thing that can put a smile on your face in the day-to-day grind. It helps building human relationships, which is essential to having a healthy life.
1.1.3.1. Con: We don't need gender-specific chivalry but gender-neutral courtesy and politeness. Why chivalry, a gender-specific form of courtesy is required is unclear.
1.1.3.1.1. Con: Saying that we need gender-neutral courtesy and politeness doesn't really affect the fact that chivalry is a courteous and polite thing. If a woman wants to be polite and courteous, that's a-okay, I guess we just don't have a denomination for it.
1.2. Con: There are plenty of women that appreciate the gallantry.
1.2.1. Con: This has no bearing on whether or not it is sexist.
1.2.1.1. Con: Women would not appreciate gentlemen, if they considered their behavior as being sexist or sexist stereotype enforcing.
1.2.1.1.1. Con: Women might not be aware of the sexist underpinnings.
1.2.1.1.1.1. Pro: Chivalrous behavior reinforcing negative stereotypes has not yet been a major topic, outside of Scandinavia.
1.2.1.1.1.2. Con: If a person needs to be informed that something should offend them, it probably shouldn't.
1.2.1.1.1.2.1. Con: Women and men, are socially conditioned by our surroundings and often oblivious to harmful patterns in society, till they are pointed out to them. This doesn't affect whether something should be changed or not.
1.2.1.1.1.2.1.1. Pro: In order to cope with injustices, people often repress thinking about unjust patterns, especially if they think they can't do anything about them.
1.2.1.1.1.3. Pro: The sexism of chivalrous behavior is likely not direct or conscious.
1.2.2. Con: There are plenty of women who share and believe sexist ideas.
1.3. Con: "Chivalrous behavior", as listed, are mostly actions that could be interpreted as subservient; as such, it is wrong to suggest that chivalry is sexist towards women. Rather, it is the opposite and should be considered female privilege.
1.3.1. Con: But the underlying idea is that she doesn't have the funds to do it or that it is a signaling game, that you are well enough off to afford it, both antiquated in today's times.
1.3.1.1. Con: I think this would be open to interpretation. Even in scenarios, by modern standards, where the female may make more money, the male is still expected to take on this role.
1.3.2. Pro: Thinking that a man is required to be chivalrous is sexist. A kind and subservient behavior \(that chivalry implies\) towards women is intrinsically similar to any other "planned behaviour" to attract women, e.g. acting rude or "alpha males".
1.3.3. Con: Men do chivalrous actions of their own free will, it shouldn't be considered female privilege when women have no say in the matter
1.3.4. Pro: There are many attributes of "gentlemanly behavior" that genuinely call for the man's life to be placed second to that of a woman.
1.3.4.1. Pro: A man is supposed to walk on the more dangerous side when walking with a woman, e.g. the curb-facing side.
1.3.4.1.1. Con: This simply does not happen in modern society; while it may be a custom in certain places, it often does not materialise in practise.
1.3.4.2. Pro: On a sinking ship, it is expected that men will be saved, or exit the ship last.
1.3.4.2.1. Con: Not since the Titanic, and even then, [women wrote to object](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/8576246/Chivalry-explained-from-knights-of-honour-to-womens-lib.html) to the policy of "women and children first", saying it is “a sacrifice which ought not be demanded of the male sex, nor accepted by the female".
1.3.4.3. Pro: On a downed-plane, it is expected that men will exit last.
1.3.4.3.1. Con: In planes, in case of an emergency, everybody is supposed to proceed in an orderly fashion towards the exits. While helping the weak, injured and children. There is no gender-preference.
1.3.4.4. Pro: In a burning building, it is expected that men will be saved last, and will ensure the survival of the women inside.
1.3.4.4.1. Con: This is supposition. No evacuation policies are gendered in any way or form.
1.3.4.5. Con: These are massively [outdated stereotypes](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/8576246/Chivalry-explained-from-knights-of-honour-to-womens-lib.html), and do not exist any longer in society.
1.3.4.5.1. Con: This is still very much a cultural normative and expectation.
1.3.4.6. Con: This could be based on the idea that individuals who are biologically women are capable of having children, and thus inherently more necessary to protect.
1.3.4.6.1. Pro: Women are more important than men, for a stable or growing population, as a single man can, in theory, have 100s of children, while a single woman can only have a couple. Therefore, fewer men than women are required to have a stable or growing population and thus when looking only at that aspect, men are less important.
1.3.4.6.2. Con: Then this norm would only extend to fertile women, but it does also to women in their 60s.
1.3.4.6.2.1. Con: It's easier to enforce a norm that includes a whole sex, rather than trying to draw an age-/fertility-derived line, from where on women should not be "protected" anymore.
1.4. Con: Women, on average, are physically weaker, thus men should be chivalrous.
1.4.1. Pro: Men, especially in a historical context, are on average larger and more physically threatening than their female or feminine peers. Chivalry is in part designed to negate the inherit danger posed by men to anyone weaker by guiding them into a role of protector and discouraging men from assuming the role of a tyrant.
1.4.1.1. Con: Men taking the role of protector, implies that others are in need of protection, in this case a whole gender. We shouldn't anymore imply that women are in need of protection and if they are, we should change the societies in a way that doesn't necessitate protection anymore.
1.4.1.2. Con: In today's societies there should be no need for men to behave as protectors of women. Government should take care of that.
1.4.1.3. Con: The notion that women require special protection, is antiquated and should, if at all, be replaced with one that is not predicated on sex, but lesser physical mass and strength.
1.4.1.4. Pro: Contemporary society sorely lacks clear roles for males and many young men are struggling with finding their place. The Protector archetype is a safe and beneficial one.
1.4.1.4.1. Con: The role of 'peer' or 'equal' would be better and less sexist than the protector archetype.
1.4.2. Con: Women are weaker is a generalisation so is by necessity often wrong. So it is incorrect to make a general rule as the rule will also be often wrong. Also a weaker person may not need help or protection in any given circumstance. A better rule would be if any person is weaker than another and requests help or protection, it should reasonably be given.
1.4.3. Pro: Sports tournaments mostly separate male and female competitors because of significant gender-specific differences which would make mixed tournaments unfair.
1.4.4. Con: Even so, women get by fine without men, as is proven by billions of single women every day.
1.4.5. Con: The tasks that are being being "touched" by gentleman behavior are tasks that women can and do perform just as well, when men are not around.
1.4.5.1. Pro: Women lift heavy bags themselves when traveling by themselves.
1.4.5.2. Pro: Women actually do not stand in front of closed doors, when no men are around, waiting for them to come by and graciously open the door for them.
1.4.5.3. Pro: Women's hair and clothes getting wet, is actually not worse than men's hair and clothes getting wet, thus they aren't in need of men holding an umbrella over their head, just because they are women, while the men themselves are walking in the rain.
1.4.5.3.1. Con: It doesn't matter whether the original "need" is valid, as the behaviour has become a social custom, and observing an expected custom is polite in and of itself.
1.4.5.4. Con: Women are physically weaker on average than men, so they cannot perform those tasks "just as well". It is a bit more difficult for them to lift heavy bags.
1.4.5.4.1. Con: "Just as well" is regarding the completion of the task, not regarding the effort exerted.
1.4.5.4.2. Con: If we were to distribute tasks to whomever has to exert least effort to complete them, strong men would continuously have to help everybody around them. But this is clearly not the norm.
1.4.5.4.2.1. Pro: At an airport you don't see strong men, helping weaker men, lift their bags all the time, just because they are weaker.
1.4.6. Pro: Being helpful to women, who, on average, have less physical strength than men, helps their lives and causes no harm to it.
1.5. Con: The concept and [code](http://www.medieval-life-and-times.info/medieval-knights/code-of-chivalry.htm) of [Chivalry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chivalry) is more than just a code of conduct towards Women. It was a code for [nobles and knights](http://www.lordsandladies.org/knights-code-of-chivalry.htm).
1.5.1. Con: Regardless of what it was at the conception, today the only still relevant concepts are the attitudes and behaviour toward women. So unless you want to bring back a caste system and knights, it's not very useful to consider something as it used to be. Many institutions today are very different than they were in the past.
1.5.2. Pro: Show me a man who holds a door for a woman and you will find a man who will also open it for other men, children, elderly, etc. it is not an act of sexual domination. It is an act of service and humility.
1.5.2.1. Con: The concept of chivalrous behaviour debated here is "nearly exclusively towards women", this argument that the actions would be the same for other men or children doesn't apply here
1.5.2.1.1. Con: The definition given for Chivalry in the title is wrong. It is too narrow and distorting what Chivalry actually is and means.
1.6. Pro: Women today still face gender-based discrimination, thus any behavior, implying that they are less capable or should be treated in a special way, should be discontinued.
1.6.1. Con: There are other and better solutions to the problem of gender inequality than removing all gender-based behaviours and differences.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Removing all gender-based differences and behaviours strips us from a huge portion of human culture we have accumulated for years.
1.6.1.2. Con: Alone, the existence of "other and better solutions" in general does not negate the value of the presented solution.
1.6.2. Pro: The origin of gentleman behavior is that women are too weak to do certain things.
1.6.2.1. Con: The origin of gentlemanly behavior was to respect and recognize the things that women can do that men cannot, id est, childbearing.
1.6.2.2. Con: No, it's the fact that men are generally much more physically dangerous than women. Through setting men up as the protectors, we created a network of safety for women in a world where the average of one sex can physically dominate the average of the other.
1.7. Pro: Chivalrous behavior is predicated on the notion of women not being strong or independent enough.
1.7.1. Pro: Gentlemen pay for women's drinks.
1.7.1.1. Con: -> See 1.3.
1.7.2. Con: That may once have been true, but since its origin, it has simply become embedded into social convention. Adhering to that convention is a sign of respect, flouting the convention is rude. It isn't relevant how the convention originated, or whether the convention applies to all.
1.7.2.1. Pro: We have held on to many idiosyncratic social conventions. For example, it is no longer necessary to shake a stranger's hand to determine whether they are armed, but it would still be considered quite rude to refuse a handshake simply because the convention's original purpose is obsolete.
1.7.3. Pro: Carrying a woman's bags, because she is not physically strong enough.
1.7.4. Pro: Holding an umbrella over a woman's head, because her beauty is more important than his.
1.7.5. Con: It's not that women are not strong or independent enough, it's just that men are typically stronger. If men felt no duty to protect and preserve women, they could, and have, become absolute tyrants. By instilling a sense of duty, we prevent this.
1.7.5.1. Con: This is a [false dilemma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/False_dilemma), we prevent being tyrants just by treating people like equals and being respectful. There is no need to an additional duty.
1.7.6. Pro: Opening doors for women, because they are in dire need of that.
1.7.6.1. Con: A paper in the May, 2011 issue of Psychological Science by Joseph Santamaria and David Rosenbaum suggests that people hold doors for other people as a subconscious effort to reduce group or collective effort, rather than any stigma related to gender.
1.7.6.1.1. Con: Sure, but that is people of any gender holding doors open for people of any gender, while gentleman behavior is defined as men being courteous towards women. A man opening a door for another man is not considered gentleman behavior but simply courteous.
1.7.6.1.1.1. Con: Then a man holding a door for woman is considered chivalrous only because that title has been attached to it.
1.7.7. Pro: A gentleman gives a woman his jacket, when it's freezing, because her freezing is worse than him freezing, given that freezing often leads to people becoming sick.
1.7.7.1. Pro: Women are more susceptible to cold, because generally they have lighter/thinner clothes than a man and weight less than a man, making them more susceptible to cold.
1.7.7.1.1. Con: Women have a higher percentage of fat tissue, on average.
1.7.7.1.2. Con: Even if that were the case, the case was not that a man gives the jacket that he doesn't need, to a woman, but that he gives jacket that he would need himself to a woman, while he freezes.
1.7.7.1.3. Con: Part of the weight difference is due to them being shorter, on average.
1.7.8. Con: There is an evolutionary explanation: reducing women's workload, stress etc maintains the health of the carriers of the next generation, who must survive if the human race is to survive.
1.7.8.1. Pro: Women are the restrictive factor, not men, for maintaining a stable / growing population, not men.
1.7.8.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.4.6.1.
1.7.8.2. Con: Just because it's an evolutionary explanation doesn't refute that the notion is rooted in the belief of 'women are not strong enough' or the act being sexist
1.8. Con: Most men enjoy being chivalrous.
1.8.1. Pro: Most chivalrous men behave this way because they have been brought up with this societal norm, not because they want to propagate sexist societal norms.
1.8.1.1. Pro: Most men that grew up being chivalrous towards women, are also polite towards all other people
1.8.1.2. Con: You can be sexist unintentionally, therefore they could be propagating sexist societal norms even when they don't want to be.
1.8.2. Con: People enjoy a lot of things, this doesn't mean that they should do them.
1.8.3. Con: This has no bearing on whether or not it is sexist.
1.9. Pro: The behaviors considered as "being chivalrous" are really just being courteous. Placing them under the label of chivalry implies only one gender or sex should, can or actually does these things.
1.9.1. Pro: Chivalry implies some favour or deference the strong \(or those who perceive themselves as\) bestow upon the weak - not something the "weak" requested, or even needed. As such, at the very least, Chivalry is a discourteous mode of behaviour. Just be polite and mindful to all.
1.10. Con: A man is sexist, not when he is chivalrous, but when he believes women to be requiring the help.
1.10.1. Con: Since the ulterior motives are difficult to distinguish, it may be better to assume that 'gentleman' behavior is not necessary.
1.10.1.1. Con: Just because in some cases the motives of an action might be wrong, it doesn't imply that the action itself is wrong, nor that we should prohibit it at all \(especially when the motives are good\).
1.11. Pro: In contexts where gender should not be relevant \(such as a workplace\), interacting with women differently calls attention to their gender, at the expense of more relevant aspects of the situation.
1.11.1. Con: Chivalry isnt limited to the workplace.
1.11.2. Con: Brief acts, like opening doors to a lady, does no harm to her; is a simple act of courtesy, and can help building healthy relations between people in the workplace.
1.11.2.1. Con: These acts exactly, bring to attention that she is a woman and should be treated differently.
1.12. Pro: The history of chivalry is based on the trope "[damsel in distress](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Damsel_in_distress)", where men have to protect women's lives, even if it costs them their own.
1.12.1. Con: The above thread is factually inaccurate based off the link provided and reading the full article. The chivalry in question is based off of [European Traditions of Nobility](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chivalry#Europe_before_1170:_The_Noble_Habitus), which tried to codify the societal norms and classes there in. The damsel in distress is a romantic novels trope \(coming from well after the end of the age of chivalry\).