Discussion Title: Is Cinco de Mayo Cultural Appropriation?

1. Is Cinco de Mayo Cultural Appropriation?
1.1. Pro: US americans enjoy celebrating it.
1.1.1. Pro: Americans, including millions of Mexican-Americans, enjoy celebrating this holiday; any excuse to have a good time is often embraced.
1.1.1.1. Con: If what is being embraced cannot be properly explained, especially when its pertaining to the culture of another and may be offensive, it should not be celebrated.
1.1.2. Con: This is disrespectful of Mexican people.
1.1.2.1. Pro: Caring only about the enjoyment of Americans without taking in account the feeling of Mexicans is deeply selfish and racist.
1.2. Pro: Cinco de Mayo is a secular celebration.
1.2.1. Con: Most federal holidays are secular already, such as Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, George Washington’s Birthday or Independence Day.
1.2.2. Con: Whether it is secular or religious isn't relevant to whether it belongs to another culture or not.
1.3. Con: The continued celebration of this holiday distorts Mexican history.
1.3.1. Pro: US pop culture has a bigger impact than Mexican public diplomacy. As such, images perpeutated by the US will create a more lasting impression.
1.3.2. Pro: Some Americans that celebrate Cinco de Mayo are not interested in the history of the holiday, but simply in having a day to celebrate.
1.4. Pro: The holiday brings to prominence an event in Mexican history, even if it is misunderstood.
1.5. Pro: Cinco de Mayo should be celebrated in the US, represents the defeat of the French army by the low funded and bad prepared Mexican army \(slightly supported by the US with funds\). A time where US searched for an important ally to trade products after the blockage of Imperial Europe. Also is important to understand a give the right meaning to the festivity.
1.6. Con: Cinco de mayo its not a big deal in México \(is not celebrated\), the only ones celebrating it are Mexicans or descendants in the US. So celebrating cinco de mayo its something that was born there, like Tex Mex food that is a US version of Mexican food. A México Mexican would feel that kind of food is incomparable to real Mexican food that was named Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO. Mexicans living there take that day like a kind of a latin pride.
1.7. Pro: The widespread celebration of Cinco de Mayo softens the xenophobia Mexicans and those of Mexican descent encounter in this country.
1.8. Pro: Cinco de Mayo adds to the multicultural tapestry that makes this country great.
1.8.1. Con: Cinco de Mayo adds to the miseducation of Americans about authentic Mexican culture and history, which makes the US misinformed about a portion of its own citizens.
1.8.1.1. Pro: Cinco de Mayo is not recognized by Americans for what it truthfully and historically stands for, but rather a holiday of alcoholic indulgence, similar to St. Patrick's Day,
1.9. Con: Mexican independence day is overshadowed by this holiday.
1.9.1. Con: Mexican independence is only marginally important to US citizens.
1.9.1.1. Con: Cinco de Mayo was not a victory of US importance either, but it is celebrated as such.
1.10. Con: People need to be more cognizant of how and why they celebrate certain cultures. Adding booze and mariachi music to a weekend is not a celebration but an insult.
1.11. Con: Cinco de Mayo perpetuates negative Mexican stereotypes.
1.11.1. Con: US Americans are able to appreciate a perceived aspect of Mexican culture. This will enhance the value of the Mexican community.
1.11.1.1. Con: The "Mexican community" does not need US Americans' appreciation to be valuable. Mexican history and culture exists independently from US Americans perceptions and is valuable for reasons that have nothing to do with us.
1.11.1.2. Con: This does no good to Mexicans when the rest of their culture and presence is degraded, or perceived in a negative way.
1.11.2. Pro: Wearing sombreros and stick-on mustaches while drinking is a stereotype [many Mexicans](https://studybreaks.com/culture/cinco-de-mayo/) would like denounced for its offensiveness.
1.11.3. Con: Cinco de Mayo can be celebrated by anyone appropriately, so the holiday on its own doesn't perpetuate stereotypes\(which aren't all negative and/or untrue enough to be offensive- my opinion as a Mexican\).
1.11.4. Con: Cinco de Mayo itself doesn't perpetuate negative stereotypes, rather the way it is interpreted and celebrated. This can be changed.
1.12. Pro: Businesses rely on the influx of tourists and locals to Mexican-themed sites to support their livelihood.
1.12.1. Con: There are various ways for businesses to celebrate Mexican culture other than Cinco de Mayo.
1.12.2. Pro: Cinco de Mayo helps the sales of [tequila](https://www.gobankingrates.com/saving-money/food/cinco-de-mayo-alcohol-sales/).