Discussion Title: Is Communism Actually Viable In The USA?

1. Communism Is Viable in the USA.
1.1. Con: Communism has not been shown to be viable anywhere.
1.1.1. Con: It has. The socialist uprisings of the 20th century faced intense attack from a coalition of superior nations, and lingering internal adversaries. However, some were able to drastically improve the condition of society, from education, to industry, to life expectancy. Their ability to resist global capitalist power is a factor to be considered, in absence of a historical socialist power that remained unmolested.
1.1.1.1. Con: The socialist uprisings of the 20th century did not result in long-term, sustainable socialist societies.
1.1.1.1.1. Con: The Soviet Union lasted for roughly 80 years and only collapsed due to US interference in their elections. Cuba has been excelling in recent years, despite the continuation of the US embargo.

[off-guardian.org](https://off-guardian.org/2018/02/19/yanks-to-the-rescue-times-not-so-secret-story-of-how-american-advisers-helped-yeltsin-win-the-1996-presidential-election/)

[www.telesurtv.net](https://www.telesurtv.net/english/multimedia/Cubas-Achievements-Over-the-Decades-20160318-0035.html)
1.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Although the Soviet Union may have been strong as a state, it does not mean that the state was effective towards harboring a sustainable society. For example: [Holodomor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holodomor), as well as other atrocities which faced Soviet society at the time
1.1.1.2. Con: A system of government that has [murdered more millions of citizens than the Holocaust](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Black_Book_of_Communism#Estimated_number_of_victims), in each of it's attempted countries, has not improved the condition of society, education, industry, or life expectancy. It has, in fact, desecrated them.
1.1.2. Pro: The examples of Russia and China spring immediately to mind.
1.1.3. Pro: Communism knows nothing of value hierarchies. Rather than acknowledging that capitalism is a hierarchical structure that best serves humanity \(with acknowledged casualties\), communism defines reality as "oppressors" and "oppressed", where the "oppressed" are allowed to any and all evils to destroy the hierarchy/"oppressors". Unfortunately there are thousands of hierarchies, which is why communism devoured millions of "oppressors" in the last century, as each hierarchy got its "turn".
1.1.3.1. Con: Historical materialism does not make value judgements. Marx did not assume the feudal lords to be the "oppressor", and the bourgeoisie the "oppressed". Material realities and internal economic contradiction necessitated the overthrow of feudalism. As Marx said would also occur to capitalism, due to its contradictions.
1.1.4. Pro: Communism as a whole is entirely too exploitable to ever be a sustainable system of government. We should however take some of Marx's criticisms of capitalism to heart. His diagnosis was spot on, but his prescription is worse than the disease.
1.1.5. Pro: All previous iterations of Communism have failed and, despite cries of "that wasn't true Communism", they were.
1.1.6. Pro: Communism goes against the basic way humans act. We work because we must. If the state is taking care of us, we will work the least amount possible. Hence the collapse of every communist country on earth.
1.1.7. Pro: Communism hasn't worked out well for the people in many communist countries. It would work far less well in much of America. If one considers the USA as actually [11](http://www.businessinsider.com/regional-differences-united-states-2018-1) different distinct areas, the most populous and economically powerful of these would not submit to communist rule; thus if forced to, a large war and mass deaths would occur.
1.2. Pro: Because of the rise of automation and artificial intelligence, a majority of future Americans may become permanently unemployable because their labour would be worthless in the free market. To maintain a basic quality of life the government may need to create a command economy in order to adequately redistribute resources.
1.3. Pro: Without a powerful capitalist coalition to suppress it, it would be free to empower victims of neo-colonialism across the globe and ultimately become the dominant power on Earth.
1.3.1. Con: Absent a complete global revolution, a scenario where a communist US is able to freely expand its sphere of influence without opposition from capitalist countries is extremely unlikely, even if we grant that communism is beneficial. Saying communism only works when unopposed is admitting that it does not work in most practical, conceivable scenarios.
1.3.1.1. Con: Historical claims require historical context. Saying communism doesn't work based on heavily sabotaged attempts by previously post-feudal or impoverished nations is simply unscientific.
1.3.2. Con: This presumes a moral purity in leadership which has never been demonstrated in communist states.
1.3.3. Pro: Communist China is effectively exerting its power across the globe in this fashion. International land purchase by its citizens is in fact land in other countries which automatically comes under China’s control. Vietnamese people are currently protesting at China’s greater control of Vietnamese land. [m.theepochtimes.com](https://m.theepochtimes.com/vietnamese-community-has-warning-about-communist-china_2681687.html)
1.4. Pro: The United States has the economic and social characteristics conducive to the establishment of a communist regime.
1.4.1. Con: There would be intense rebellion against the idea of communism.
1.4.1.1. Con: As conditions for the workers and the poor get worse, and alternative methods of grievance are further withered by the bourgeois, socialist sentiment will continue growing at larger rates than present.
1.4.1.2. Con: A violent revolt is not particularly necessary. Proliferating worker cooperatives could result in a more syndicalist approach. This would create incrementally stronger dispersion of market wealth while opening up the pathway to full worker ownership.
1.4.2. Pro: In the USA, some colonies were created [based on](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utopian_socialism) the utopian socialists' approach.
1.4.2.1. Con: Socialism only works on tiny scale societies with simple political organization, as the probity of administration is closer and manageable to its citizens.
1.4.2.1.1. Pro: Land is best cared for by those who live on it. When land is owned by those who are not impacted by its destruction, it is likely to be destroyed for profit.
1.4.2.2. Con: Those colonies [starved](https://www.usagovpolicy.com/communism-and-starvation-in-early-america/) until capitalistic systems were reintroduced.
1.4.3. Pro: Many Utopian Socialists saw in America a political reference that could lead the construction of an alternative society.
1.5. Con: American public opinion is not in favour of socialist policies. This indicates that communist policies, which are even further to the left, would be wildly unpopular.
1.5.1. Pro: However, [support](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/06/23/public-support-for-single-payer-health-coverage-grows-driven-by-democrats/) for 'socialist' measures like single-payer universal healthcare is growing.
1.5.2. Con: American public opinion can change fairly rapidly, as was the case for gay marriage.
1.5.2.1. Con: A complete change in economic system has far more practical implications on the average person than gay marriage.
1.5.2.2. Con: American public opinion is not 100% behind gay marriage and the numerous legal changes it has initiated. This is still a divisive topic.
1.5.2.3. Con: Gay marriage was opposed mostly by the religious right a shinking group. Communism would involve the whole population and would require universal consent to work \(as dictated by communist ideal state\).
1.5.3. Pro: Socialist groups have been gaining power and growing in popularity.
1.6. Pro: The American trade union movement can lead to a generation of a new class identity.
1.6.1. Con: Class identity is innately harmful as an unnecessary divider between haves, have-somes, and have-nots. It naturally breeds resentment by focusing on the already-volatile subject of inequality.
1.6.1.1. Con: Capitalism has already divided the proletarian and the bourgeois in its structural make up. The proletarian works to live; the capitalist steals the worker's surplus value. The two classes have separate goals, which come into conflict with one another.
1.7. Con: The neoliberal movement is very strong in the US.
1.7.1. Pro: Although the control of capitalism has gotten too far in the US, you could easily promote socialist policies such as free healthcare and free education without going full on communism.
1.7.2. Con: This still doesn't mean communism itself is viable; liberal policies, however, are.
1.8. Con: In the majority of times a communist revolution has become just in a dictatorship.
1.8.1. Con: It not necessary that communism become a dictatorship in the USA.
1.8.1.1. Con: One cannot control the direction of future politics by good wishes. History shows us a despot will eventually rise to power at some point. Communism maintains the power of such despots, as we have seen in North Korea.
1.8.1.2. Con: It is much easier to plan around the ills of the human character rather then it's positives. When communism is ready to deal with the vices of the human spirit without the need to reeducate or murder those people then it will be a viable alternative to democracy/Republic/liberal ideals.
1.8.2. Pro: The US was built upon and fought for tenets antithetical to Communism; individualism and self-actualization, as well as to be freed from the repressions of tyranny. Communism is designed to be "benevolent tyranny".
1.8.3. Pro: Communism has a common flaw of assuming that its leadership will not act against the interests of its government \(corruption/nepotism/poorly researched public and military policy/etc.\). This is why most concepts of communism have quickly transformed into irreversible despotism when applied to a federal level in many countries very early on. It would have many of these same issues if it was applied to any large country. There are many other reasons, but this one is seldom addressed.
1.9. Con: Communism will be only viable when mankind become machine, without any individual will, just a collective obdience to the system.
1.10. Con: The international community is not prone to the generation of communist states.
1.10.1. Con: The United States was the chief prosecutor of the anti-communist agenda. With it on the socialist side, not only will it be able to resist the bourgeois internationally, the victims of neo-colonialism will be safe to adopt the system as well.