Discussion Title: Is forgiving someone who doesn't regret beneficial for you?

1. Is forgiving someone who doesn't regret what they did beneficial for you?
1.1. Pro: Forgiving is good for your health.
1.1.1. Pro: The act of forgiveness can [lower](https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/health/healthy_aging/healthy_connections/forgiveness-your-health-depends-on-it) the risk of heart attack, improve sleep, and reduce pain, blood pressure, anxiety, and depression.
1.1.2. Pro: People who hang onto grudges are [more likely](https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/health/healthy_aging/healthy_connections/forgiveness-your-health-depends-on-it) to experience depression and PTSD.
1.1.3. Pro: The opposite of forgiving \(remembering, rumination, anger, regret\) is less beneficial - it is not constructive and unhealthy.
1.2. Pro: Forgiviness is not giving a free pass to 'run wild' in the future, but about understanding what happened and things that can't be changed, thus moving on.
1.2.1. Pro: Accepting the past takes the focus off of it and allows you to live your life more fully in the present.
1.2.2. Pro: It is a good reminder that in many situations we have no control over people's behaviour towards us, which makes us less worried and more at peace in the present.
1.2.3. Pro: Forgive doesn't mean to forget. It means only to abstain yourself from executing a grudge.
1.2.4. Con: Acceptance does not imply forgiveness. One can understand things, move on, without forgiving.
1.3. Con: Forgiving a behaviour from someone who has a significantly different moral value system will make you less discerning and more prone to be hurt in a similar way in the future.
1.3.1. Pro: You can't forgive without understanding the whole situation.
1.3.1.1. Con: We can accept that the other person is just different and had their reasons to act the way they did even if those reasons are not revealed or are beyond our comprehension.
1.3.1.1.1. Pro: There is a reason for every action. The person who was harming was meeting a need of theirs \(not necessarily a morally justified one, but a need\). It would be helpful to ask what need they were meeting.
1.3.1.2. Con: You can act without understanding. Such as when an individual acts on impulse. Or when a parents forces a child to act without explaining why.
1.3.1.2.1. Con: Forgiveness is a conscious, deliberate process and cannot be forced or made on impulse; it requires a considerable level of understanding.
1.3.2. Con: No, it will make you more spontaneous and less distrusting, so that your outlook on new situations is fresher and not tainted by the past.
1.3.3. Pro: You were already too forgiving and open, that's why you got hurt in the first place - forgiving now would be to throw the whole hard-earned knowledge out the window.
1.3.3.1. Pro: Unless you keep in mind what you've learnt, there will be nothing in your surroundings to remind you of being discerning.
1.3.3.2. Con: People who are less discerning are generally happier anyway.
1.4. Con: If the person does not recognise the harm, they do not deserve your forgiveness.
1.4.1. Con: Forgiveness not  only serves the person who harmed but also serves the victim.
1.4.1.1. Con: Forgiveness protects the person who harmed from retaliation. Therefore it also serves him/her.
1.4.2. Con: Acts of good will and mercy can be applied to the person without their knowledge or permission.
1.4.3. Con: Forgiveness should be given unconditionally.
1.4.3.1. Con: Forgiveness should be given even if it isn't deserved, but should not be unconditional.
1.4.3.1.1. Pro: Unconditional forgiveness seems more like a sign or fear rather than love.
1.4.3.1.1.1. Pro: Unconditional forgiveness is [destructive](http://www.gospel.com/blog/index.php/2009/10/15/should-forgiveness-be-unconditional/). For example, continuously forgiving an abusive partner over and over is not a desirable goal, as it will not result in the resolution of a problem, but rather enabling it to continue.
1.4.3.1.2. Pro: In Christian faith, God does not forgive unconditionally. A sinner must repent to be forgiven.
1.4.3.2. Pro: Many Christians believe god forgives unconditionally, which is an ideal to strive for.
1.4.3.2.1. Con: -> See 1.4.3.1.2.
1.4.3.2.2. Pro: [Repentance](https://sharperiron.org/article/should-forgiveness-be-unconditional) means all sins, past, present, and future are forgiven and our salvation is secure.
1.4.3.2.3. Con: Christian faith is not a good reference for morality or behaviours that are beneficial for oneself, for that matter.
1.4.3.3. Con: What is done out of a sense of obligation is not necessarily beneficial for the individual, in fact it could be detrimental.
1.4.3.3.1. Pro: Believing one should forgive because it is the right thing to do can be counterproductive and induce feelings of guilt if one is not able or willing to forgive.
1.5. Pro: Yes, forgiving someone gives closure and you'll stop thinking about the unpleasant situation.
1.5.1. Con: If there are situation in your daily life that trigger bad memories, you will still be unwittingly reminded of the situation.
1.5.1.1. Con: Yes, but you can deal with them with a new mindset - forgiving the person for their deeds means forgiving the consequences as well.
1.5.1.2. Pro: You will burden yourself with the task of dealing with triggers trying not to get angry at the person, which might lead to even bigger frustration.
1.5.2. Pro: Sometimes you also need to forgive yourself for past mistakes. In this sense, forgiving the other person allows you to take a step forwards and start forgiving yourself.
1.6. Con: Forgiveness is a way of soothing oneself and finding closure.
1.6.1. Con: The benefit of forgiveness has to do with the relief coming from the fact of accepting the past, which entails forgiving yourself for not preventing the hurtful situation - thus eliminating the shame and some of the hurt.
1.6.2. Con: The underlying feelings like hurt or shame are not resolved, rather than subdued.
1.7. Pro: The need to be forgiven for one's own digressions could be argument alone for forgiving others of theirs.
1.8. Pro: Forgiveness is a form of personal self control and since we can only control ourselves, it is one of the most beneficial tools in our tool box.
1.8.1. Pro: Forgiving a perceived wrong or slight negates the intended attempt to hijack our control. Any resulting pain is ultimately in our control as well. Forgiveness is a power, not a weakness, while succumbing to the slight is relinquishing our power to the perpetrator and making our own selves miserable.
1.9. Pro: This comes from Pastor James McDonald of Harvest Bible Chapel in Rolling Meadows, Illinois, and as the Bible teacher for his broadcast ministry, Walk in the Word..."Repentance is simpler where restitution is possible. Fertile soil for forgiveness. [facebook.com](https://www.facebook.com/155488477808948/posts/2035401769817600/)
1.10. Con: If the person is still in your life, forgiving them is not beneficial, as they're likely to continue harming you.
1.10.1. Pro: Sociopaths and psychopaths do not change. You can not hope for them to stop hurting you, if they find it beneficial.
1.10.2. Pro: It also send the wrong message. As there are no consequences, forgiveness  may be understood as weakness and a free pass to continue evil behavior.
1.10.2.1. Con: Forgiving a slight does not mean you condone the behavior. Nor does it mean you want it to recur. To forgive is an inside job. To attempt to rectify any wrong doing or slight requires an agreement between the parties both on the impact of the slight and on the remedy.
1.11. Con: It is not possible to really forgive without repentance.
1.11.1. Pro: Forgiving without repentance is premature; it is a disruption of an organic process of admitting a sin, repentance, making amends and then being forgiven.
1.12. Pro: According to non-duality teachings the person could not have acted in any other way - their actions were a result of their biological preferences and up-to-date conditioning they had no control over. So in fact there is nothing to forgive.
1.13. Pro: Forgiving is not the same as acceptance. You can let go of your hard feelings without making it mean that what they did was okay.