Discussion Title: Is Female Education The Most Important Objective to Improve Quality of Life?

1. The education of women is the most important objective to improve the overall quality of living
1.1. Con: Many societies do not really care about gender equality. Efforts that target female education are therefore not in line with what people consider necessary or want.
1.1.1. Con: What is considered 'necessary' or 'wanted' by some does not mean it shouldn't be a priority.
1.1.2. Con: This may be more easily established on a case by case basis then, rather than a blanket rule - it still remains true, however, that education is vital.
1.2. Pro: Education is crucial for enabling women's agency, which lies at the core of an improved quality of living.
1.2.1. Pro: There is a high correlation between high education levels and chances of financial independence in later life.
1.2.2. Pro: Women are most vulnerable to trafficking when they are undereducated and poor, according to the United Nations Inter-Agency Project on Human Trafficking. Through providing young girls with opportunities and fundamental skills, this billion-dollar industry can be significantly undermined.
1.2.3. Pro: Educating girls leads to women taking control of their reproduction, reducing fertility rate, improving health outcomes of themselves and their families, alleviating poverty, and as a result reducing environmental degradation. All environmentalists should be fighting for girls' education worldwide.
1.2.4. Con: As important as women's education is, clean drinking water, reliable food sources, and adequate medical care for major disease are more likely to be the most important factor in improving the overall quality of living.
1.2.4.1. Con: Educating women in agriculture, and allowing them improve their own situation, could be vital in achieving these goals.
1.2.4.2. Pro: Reduction of extreme poverty is the most important objective to improving quality of living.
1.3. Pro: Educating women is the most effective way of increasing household and national income.
1.3.1. Pro: Just one extra year of secondary education can increase a woman’s income as much as [25% a year](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/oct/01/educate-women-and-their-community-will-prosper-deny-them-education-and-the-world-will-suffer), which is more often than not spent on her family's wellbeing.
1.3.2. Pro: [Gross domestic product](https://www.globalpartnership.org/blog/why-educating-girls-makes-economic-sense) also soars when both girls and boys are being offered educational opportunities: "a one percentage point increase in female education raises the average GDP by 0.3 percentage points and raises annual GDP growth rates by 0.2 percentage points.
1.3.3. Pro: Education leads to improved productive capacities of the labor force, meaning the country as a whole can become more productive and technologically advanced.
1.4. Pro: [Empowering](https://en.unesco.org/gem-report/sites/gem-report/files/GenderReview2016_eng%20\(003\).pdf) women has huge benefits for the environment.
1.4.1. Pro: Parliaments with a higher degree of female MPs are more likely to ratify environmental treaties.
1.4.1.1. Con: This is anecdotal as high rates of female membership in governments and attention to environmental issues are both relatively recent developments in history. There isn't enough data on either issue yet to draw such a strong conclusion from the correlations.
1.4.2. Pro: Smaller Families: Increased participation in school reduces fertility rates over time. In Mali, women with secondary education or higher have an average of three children. Counterparts with no education have an average of seven children.
1.5. Pro: Globally, women are significantly less educated than men at all levels. As such, focusing on women is the greatest need.
1.5.1. Pro: [Girls account for 59%](https://data.unicef.org/topic/education/literacy/) of the illiterate youth populace. Offering all children education will prop up literacy rates, pushing forward development in struggling regions.
1.5.1.1. Con: This is only a small percentage difference; it means that 41% is boys, and so focusing on education in general is more important than education for women.
1.5.2. Con: Educational levels vary widely across different areas; education has to be generally propped up worldwide, not focusing exclusively on women.
1.6. Con: The improved education of the least educated individuals in the world is the most important objective to improve the overall quality of living. While women are disproportionately under-educated in the world, there are also many under-educated men in the world. Raising the average education level of all individuals will result in the greatest good.
1.7. Con: Education of both men and women will have greater effects than that of women alone. Both must play a role in improving the quality of life of all of society's members.
1.7.1. Con: True, but in parts of the earth where women generally do not receive education, it might be easier to spread the education already in place to women as well.
1.7.2. Con: The argument does not require educating women instead of men, but rather taking the education already available to men, and extending it to women as well.
1.8. Con: -> See 1.2.4.
1.9. Pro: Improved education for women will enable them to become politically engaged.
1.9.1. Pro: Across the globe, women are underrepresented as voters and restricted from political involvement.
1.9.2. Pro: The United Nations Women’s programmes on leadership and participation suggests that civic education, training and all around empowerment will ease this gap.
1.9.3. Con: This doesn't necessarily mean overall living quality will improve.