Discussion Title: Is Hedonism a viable lifestyle choice?

1. Is Hedonism a viable lifestyle choice?
1.1. Pro: People can change their lifestyle at will, so indulging in hedonism does not necessarily imply permanent damage.
1.1.1. Con: It is no simple thing to change your entire lifestyle. The longer you live a certain way, the harder it is to break those habits. For instance, if I, a hedonist, smoked an ounce of weed every day, it would be very hard for me to quit my hedonist lifestyle and be more productive/responsible.
1.2. Pro: The only lifestyles that aren't practical are those that hurt others; and since hedonism doesn't harm anyone, it remains viable.
1.2.1. Con: Hedonism involves a lack of restrain. One may not restrain to doing some activities that indirectly harm others, as long as those activities provide him self-pleasure.
1.2.2. Con: There is a structural problem with hedonism, in that its possible for the most immediately pleasurable action to impact your ability to experience pleasure in the future. After many such actions, you have reduced your ability to pleasure yourself drastically. In this sense it isn't practical because it isn't sustainable.
1.3. Con: Hedonism only avoids harm absent social and familial obligations. Self-indulgence comes at the cost of those around you.
1.3.1. Con: If one does not have social or familial obligations then hedonism is still viable then.
1.4. Con: Embracing pain has many benefits.
1.4.1. Pro: Only by embracing the pain of sport one can advance, e.g. in cycling or running.
1.4.2. Pro: The pain one feels when being ridiculed in front of an audience can give the self-confidence that next time it won't be hurtful.
1.4.2.1. Con: Trying to enjoy the pleasures of life does not necessarily mean one can completely avoid plain. Therefore, the teachings that come from pain may equally apply.
1.4.3. Con: Accepting pain is complacent. It's natural to struggle towards a life without conflict.
1.4.4. Con: Pain is pleasurable for some; therefore it is wrong to assume that pain intrinsically cannot be a part of a hedonistic lifestyle.
1.5. Con: Though Hedonism is a choice, it is a risky one, as to mantain pleasure at all times is probably really difficult to a person control reality/all/surrounding on his own. Sadness can be fulfilling in same ways too. Without sadness there is no hapiness. And if a person is not put in a "strike or die" situation, personal growth is unlikely, in my personal opinion, because that it is what adaptation and evolution could be about, as nothing changes if there isn't a need for it.
1.6. Pro: The constant focus on the future as with typical lifestyles means you never have time to enjoy the present until it's too late.
1.6.1. Con: Focusing on the future is how you get ahead in life.
1.6.1.1. Con: That makes the assumption that the typical desires promoted by society would be everyone's desires.
1.7. Con: Good luck creating anything worthwhile without hard work, failure, and suffering. If you want to have a successful life, pleasure, especially immediate pleasure, should not be your primary focus.
1.7.1. Con: There are many who would say that pleasure and happiness is the mark of a successful life.
1.8. Pro: Maximizing pleasure over time is the purpose of life. Work, relationships, and hobbies aim at increasing the quality of your life, and hedonism properly conceived takes into consideration that you may need to suffer pain to enjoy greater pleasure in the future.
1.8.1. Con: This definition of hedonism is virtually indistinguishable from any other philosophy. All philosophies aim to maximize the 'good' in one's life. This dodges a fundamental question: what pleasures/goods/virtues should subordinate themselves and which should be prime concerns in someones life.
1.9. Con: Such a life is devoid of meaning
1.9.1. Con: A hedonistic life is one driven by the pursuit of pleasure, which in and of itself offers meaning to those who live in such a way.
1.9.2. Con: The concept of meaning is meaningless
1.9.3. Con: Meaning is subjective
1.9.4. Pro: There are far more important things in the world than your own happiness
1.9.4.1. Con: Pleasure and happiness are very important for most humans.
1.9.4.2. Con: That's not a decision another person can make for someone.
1.10. Con: to a certain extent, we already live in a hedonistic society where everything is for our instant gratification. If this was a good lifestyle choice, we would not be grateful for anything. Ultimately, nothing would be rewarding because we would become so used to getting what we thought was pleasurable that the feeling would wear off. This I think would only lead to a feeling of emptiness.