Discussion Title: Is it ethical to dig up Egyptian sarcophagi?

1. Is it ethical to dig up Egyptian sarcophagi?
1.1. Con: It's not our business.
1.1.1. Con: One can make a lot of money with digging up sarcophagi.
1.2. Con: There could be something dangerous inside the tomb.
1.2.1. Con: The dead can carry diseases which are dangerous.
1.2.2. Con: Tombs can be trapped to thwart grave robbers.
1.3. Con: It's arguably a violation of human rights to dig up someone's remains.
1.3.1. Pro: We value the interests of people when we discuss ethics and human rights, and those interests can extend past their death \(within reason\).
1.3.2. Con: 'Human Rights' refer to an action in which there is always a concomitant duty, from others as well as the rights holder, associated with the human right. In many cases the duty on other people is simply that they do not interfere or prevent the exercise of the right; however, in death there is no action taking place, so the duty of the rights holder is not being fulfilled. Additionally, a 'moral claim' does not supersede a 'legal right' unless the moral claim has been made a 'civil liberty'.
1.4. Pro: Someone who isn't alive doesn't have rights.
1.5. Pro: Sure. It is a part of history, and we should have as complete a record of human history as possible. You only live as long as the last person that remembers you: these Egyptians have the opportunity to live for as long as we have records.
1.6. Con: It's disrespectful to dig up someone's grave.
1.6.1. Con: There is no one left who can feel the disrespect.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Unlike digging up modern graves, there's no family line that knows of their relation with the person being dug up.
1.7. Pro: If the corpses in question had any living relations or close friends this would be very rude, but nobody has any personal ties to these lifeless objects
1.8. Pro: Studying history can help us learn and make the world a better place.
1.9. Pro: If it's someone famous, the sarcophagus could be stored in a museum and result in increased profits.
1.10. Pro: Publicizing the contents in a museum is fair – this way everyone has a chance to see for themselves.
1.10.1. Con: They chose to be buried in order to rest quietly and in private. Displaying them publicly violates that choice.