Discussion Title: Is it ethical to save a child over an adult?

1. Given the obligation to choose, is it ethical to save a child over an adult?
1.1. Con: Adults are faster to produce new children.
1.1.1. Con: Depending on the age \(and gender\) of the adult, they might not be able to produce new children anymore. There is no such concern with a child.
1.1.2. Con: Biologically speaking, children are able to produce new children much sooner than they actually do in today's world - basically early teenage years. While still slower than adults, depending on the age of the child it might not be that much slower.
1.1.3. Con: [Fertility declines with age](https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/infertility/). The chances for a child to be fertile at some point in the future are higher than adult's chances to be fertile at some point in the future.
1.1.4. Pro: Since the choice between two human beings is ethically almost impossible, using practical arguments to decide, considering the greater good, is the most ethical thing to do.
1.1.4.1. Con: What is practical is defined by what is needed. Without a scenario \(such as in this question\) it is impossible to determine what is practical and what is actually greater good.
1.1.5. Pro: Adults are fertile while Kids aren't.
1.2. Pro: A child hasn't lived enough to have a defining personality, so it has the untapped potential to become a better person than the already defined adult.
1.2.1. Con: Exactly the same claim can be made as a Con with adjective "better" substituted by "worse".
1.2.2. Con: While adults do tend to have more defined personalities than children, the thought that these are not subject to change is a myth. Personality is a constantly evolving thing, based on outside pressures and experiences.
1.3. Pro: If we have a moral duty to save life, then with all else being equal, the best choice is the one that maximizes the amount of life saved. A child is likely to have more life left to live than an adult, so saving the child saves more years of life.
1.3.1. Pro: If forced to kill either a newborn baby or a man with minutes left to live, there is an obvious and intuitive answer, proving the soundness of the "life years" rationale.
1.4. Pro: Children haven't been able to enjoy life as much yet and it would be unfair to take that away from them and give it to someone who has already had much more lifetime.
1.4.1. Con: Adults who have been able to enjoy more of life also have much more to lose as a result.
1.4.2. Pro: A child's life tends to be better than the parent's life simply because measures of life quality improved for the cohort.
1.4.2.1. Pro: [Life expectancy](https://www.ssa.gov/oact/tr/2012/lr5a4.html) is higher for younger cohorts.
1.5. Con: An adult's absence would be much more noticed as they made a bigger impact so far in their life.
1.6. Con: Adults have a bigger chance to already have people that depend on them. If that's the case, their death would affect in a more concrete way, a much bigger number of people.
1.6.1. Pro: The death of a child generally affects only family members. The death of an adult affects those same family members but also many other communities and social circles which said adult was a part of during his lifetime.
1.6.2. Con: Many families break apart when the child dies; apparently adults depend on children too.
1.6.3. Con: The death of a child affects society in a much more grievous way, while it's more "normal" for adults to die and the negative impact on people in that case is diminished.
1.6.3.1. Con: Adults have been invested in more by society. E.g. through education.
1.6.3.1.1. Pro: There are many hidden investments that society makes into a child with the expectation of it being paid back by that child by their actions in the future, their taxes and so on. From a strictly economic perspective, the death of an adult, especially if young, can be seen as net loss while the death of a child might come before any serious investments are done, therefore not having an impact that is so negative.
1.6.3.2. Con: The loss of adults, as providers of goods and services, has a greater impact on society.
1.6.3.3. Pro: Accidents involving children tend to reach a larger audience, such as the cave drama in [Thailand](https://edition.cnn.com/2018/07/03/asia/thai-rescue-next-phase-intl/index.html).
1.7. Pro: In case the adult lived, he could live on with regret over surviving a child. If the child lived, he could grow up feeling grateful for the opportunity given to them and act accordingly.
1.7.1. Con: This is highly circumnstantial. Just as well it could be said that if the adult will be the one to survive he will realize the gift that he has been given and will fully realize his obligations to society while the child could grow up feeling under pressure because of being the survivor and would break mentally in adulthood as a result of preceived underachieving on its part.
1.7.2. Con: Orphaned children will grief their parent-less life.