Discussion Title: Is it critically important for high quality educational experiences that all students learn to arrive on time?

1. Is it critically important for high quality educational experiences that all students learn to arrive a little early so class can begin on time?
1.1. Con: Arriving on time is too late.
1.2. Con: Punctuation is not crucial for quality educational *experience*. Experience is 100% subjective. Negative factors are always present; your personal preference determines how much these factors affect your experience.
1.3. Con: The only thing that's important in such situations is the behaviour of the student. It pretty much depends on where he is sitting, how much noise he produces and if he's joining the lecture easily and fast.
1.4. Pro: This depends on the environment. If is a large class, is of little importance if one or two students arrive in time. If, on the other hand, is a small class, only few missing students would have a real impact in the dynamic of the session.
1.5. Con: If a teacher or classmate gets upset about a student being late, that's their problem.
1.5.1. Con: If it is disruptive to a student's learning or teacher's work, that is never acceptable, as their right to continue unimpeded is basic \(whereas arriving late is simply discourteous\).
1.6. Pro: Yes. Beginning on time with everyone present allows the start of the class to flow smoothly.
1.7. Pro: Yes. People that are chronically late are acting selfishly and irresponsibly. If everyone is on time, there is less of this behavior and the atmosphere is more positive.
1.8. Con: Teaching people to arrive on time is not the responsibility of a teacher, unless this is the subject of the class.
1.8.1. Con: Teaching good timekeeping need only be passive: locking doors after a certain time, punishments for lateness etc teach timekeeping without due effort from teachers.
1.9. Pro: A group that consistently begins together, develops group cohesion. This is positive for learning.
1.10. Pro: Beginning on time relieves the teacher of having to repeat information to stragglers. This makes a happier, more energetic, and thus more effective teacher.
1.11. Con: All students arriving on time is not a prerequisite for high quality educational experiences. If the group is big, individual students arriving late does not have any impact on the overall quality of the experience of the teacher and students that were on time.
1.12. Pro: The discipline and self-awareness required to arrive on time has other positive effects on the learning environment.