Discussion Title: Is it necessary to give tips to workers in the service industry?

1. You should tip workers in the service industry
1.1. Con: Eating out is expensive, so the obligation of providing a tip is unpleasant
1.1.1. Pro: The more money you spend, the larger the expected tip
1.2. Con: It would be fairer to the customer and the worker if prices were simply increased to reflect a pay rise for the workers
1.2.1. Pro: It is pointless to give a customer a price list when they are expected to pay a larger amount anyway. In countries where tax is not habitually included in the price list, adding a tip as well creates a big disparity between the listed price and the final payment
1.3. Con: Not all service industry jobs are demanding
1.3.1. Pro: A waiter at a restaurant has to repeatedly take orders, deliver food, and check on the clients to make sure everything is okay. A barman stays in one place and mixes drinks.
1.4. Pro: Service industry jobs tend to be onerous yet pay a low salary
1.4.1. Con: It is not the responsibility of the customer to ensure the staff are being adequately paid
1.5. Pro: Giving a tip is polite and shows appreciation
1.5.1. Con: Politeness is equivalent to social obligation, and is not a good enough reason to spend money
1.6. Pro: In some countries, workers depend on tips to provide a minimum wage
1.6.1. Con: -> See 1.4.1.
1.7. Con: The economic situation of the hospitality industry is increasingly more challenging, and the expectation of tipping decentivises clientele
1.7.1. Pro: These days, a lot of high quality food is easily accessible at supermarkets at a much lower price than at a restaurant. Customers who frequent restaurants are already paying extra because they want good service and a nice atmosphere, so paying a tip doubles down on this extra payment
1.8. Con: As long as people continue to play the game by paying the expected gratuity, the government will have no incentive to fix minimum wage legislation
1.9. Pro: Giving a tip ensures good service
1.9.1. Con: Conversely, it is demoralising to workers that they constantly risk not making their full salary
1.9.2. Con: Workers should not have to 'dance like a monkey' in addition to doing their work in order to be entitled to their salary