Discussion Title: Is Journalism and "The Fourth Estate" Dead?

1. Journalism and "The Fourth Estate" is Dead
1.1. Con: The media are not much worse than they have been. Their insufficiencies, and there are some, are just more obvious in the age of idiocracy.
1.2. Pro: Journalism thrives in a culture where the population seeks to be educated; in cultures \(like the United States\) where the population does not take pride in education and critical thought, journalism is demonized.
1.3. Pro: Americans have become so politically divided that they won't know good, true journalism if they saw it.
1.4. Con: “Journalism” here, has not been defined. It is a broad practice with a variety of areas. For example “investigative journalism”, which is dominant on cable, is not the same as “reportage” which is generated *unbiased* or without editorializing which is another area, “opinion” writing. Given this it’s incumbent on those criticizing media to know they are applying the correct standards of criticism to the area being critiqued.  Cable news standards are usually set by ownership and auduence target.
1.5. Con: The sensationalism surrounding the Trump cabinet has actually [helped revive](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2017/02/06/is-donald-trump-saving-the-news-media/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.5a22d6eb97a9) news media by piquing public interest, leading to a boost in subscription numbers.
1.6. Pro: Anyone with a smartphone can be a journalist today.
1.7. Pro: Journalists are pushed to collect links and ad money instead of serving their traditional function.
1.7.1. Pro: As a result, articles that purport themselves as "news" are instead often clickbait containing stories with no substance.
1.8. Pro: Traditional media institutions have all "picked sides" and this bias detracts significantly from the public trust.
1.8.1. Con: Not all news outlets have declared a "side" they have taken.
1.9. Pro: New age media encourages surface level headlines and positions instead of in depth understanding of issues.
1.9.1. Con: There is still a vast smorgasbord of publications that focus on in-depth analysis and investigative journalism; readers who desire that level of news just need to do minimal research to find them
1.10. Con: There are still well respected journalists that intentionally act/write/comment without bias.
1.10.1. Con: No matter how professional or respected a journalist is, there will always be a segment of society that will call him biased simply because they don't agree with him.
1.11. Con: Journalists still expose truths in mass even if you have to review multiple sources and read between the lines.
1.11.1. Con: The public shouldn't have to be their own investigative journalists in order to find truths; exposing these matters and keeping the public informed is the press' job and if they're failing to do so then they serve no purpose.
1.12. Con: Journalism has learned to survive by adapting to modern media.
1.13. Con: Public figures still rely on journalists to communicate with the public in a more formal/respected manner than social media.