Discussion Title: Is meritocracy the best form of government?

1. Meritocracy is the best form of government.
1.1. Con: Appointing leaders based on one or another scale of merit violates key democratic principles. The only measurement of merit should be the will of the electorate in voting the induvidual into office.
1.1.1. Con: A meritocracy is meant to be not democratic. Yet, democracy is commonly considered the best form of government, but we don't have any meritocratic system to compare it to.
1.1.2. Con: There is no reason that popularity should be the most important factor making someone legitimate.
1.2. Con: Meritocracy is an illusion. People start from different points and the meritocratic system doesn't address that difference. In time, it tends to elitisation.
1.2.1. Con: Elitisation based on performance and the ability of good leadership is not negative.
1.2.2. Pro: A meritocratic system of government does not take into consideration systemic inequalities that may not allow certain groups to compete fairly.
1.3. Pro: Meritocratic government rewards leaders who act objectively and honestly. Democratic government rewards leaders who are better able to manipulate the truth.
1.3.1. Pro: A candidate standing for election may be popular for a variety of subjective reasons, but a meritocratic candidate can be evaluated based on purely objective measures such as their professional experience.
1.4. Pro: Performance-based distribution of power would eliminate all forms of inequality.
1.4.1. Pro: If the system can equalize the candidates, and therefore to be sure everybody have the same level of opportunities, then, it will work.
1.4.2. Pro: Factors like political propaganda or having connections would no longer have an influence on the distribution of power.
1.5. Pro: Some of the most professional and well-regarded institutions in Western countries today are meritocratic, such as the military. That is a clear proof of concept and reveals the general potential of meritocracy.
1.5.1. Con: The fact that meritocracy improves certain institutions doesn't necessarily mean that it will improve government or will indeed lead to the best from of government.
1.6. Con: There is no way of measuring and weighing 'performance' precisely enough.
1.6.1. Con: In the absence of an objective standard for 'performance', the powers that be can tailor their definition to control who scores highest.
1.6.2. Con: Someone's past actions can be objectively ascertained and used to predict their effectiveness in future roles.
1.6.2.1. Con: This method does not take into account the ability of human beings to make personality changes and therefore change modes of behavior.
1.6.3. Pro: It is often arbitrary choosing what should be measured and how to quantify performances, specially in those fields in which personal attitudes are critical \(like politics\).
1.6.4. Pro: Social skills can hardly be measured.
1.6.5. Con: Parameters such as the IQ could be taken into account.
1.6.5.1. Con: The IQ hardly tells anything about the positive impact one can make/makes to society.
1.7. Con: "Meritocracy is the best form of government" is a true statement, of course it is. It is desirable to have an economist to make budgetary decisions, rather than the uneducated masses. But the issue comes in defining merits; merits are subjective and a true meritocracy does not exist: not the person with merits is truly in power, but instead the person deciding which merits or people should be put in charge has the most power.
1.7.1. Pro: The Supreme Court of the United States is an example of an attempt at a meritocracy. Nine intelligent people with experience in their field making the most important decisions should lead to nuanced legislation; however, the reality is that important decisions are decided by how many judges were replaced under a Democratic president and how many judges were replaced under a Republican president.
1.8. Con: Meritocracy favours [Social Darwinism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_Darwinism).
1.8.1. Con: It is not Social Darwinism if some people insist on conducting themselves in an irrational, uninformed manner and therefore find themselves out-competed and left behind.
1.8.2. Pro: Meritocracy may not necessarily include ethical decision making and values - the key ingredient to reach governance benefits all strata of people.
1.8.2.1. Pro: A meritocratic system would arbitrarily benefit those naturally and systemically advantaged.
1.8.3. Pro: Disabled people for example are not capable of high 'performance' and would therefore not have a right to exist in a meritocratic society.