Discussion Title: Is Macbeth a Tragic Hero?

1. Is Macbeth a tragic hero?
1.1. Con: Macbeth is a pawn of fate, and all that occurs in the play is a fulfillment of prophesy. A tragic hero should exhibit free will.
1.1.1. Con: His destiny as a tragic hero was already written, thus Macbeth does not need to exhibit free will
1.2. Pro: At the beginning of the play, Macbeth is considered a hero by all the other characters who speak of him.
1.2.1. Pro: The very first mention of Macbeth is from a nameless Sergeant "For brave Macbeth--well he deserves that name" \(Act 1, Sc ii\) and further "O valiant cousin! worthy gentleman!" from Duncan.
1.2.2. Con: Macbeth's consequent actions undermine this entirely, rendering him a villain, not a hero.
1.3. Pro: Even though Lady Macbeth encourages him to murder Duncan, Macbeth almost decides against it.
1.3.1. Con: From the instant Macbeth sees his wife, Lady Macbeth makes it very clear that they will be murdering Duncan that evening; he makes no objection, and merely says "We will speak further", accepting her plotting.
1.4. Pro: The witches plant the seed of ambition when they tell Macbeth he "shalt be king hereafter."
1.4.1. Pro: They also trigger the murder of Banquo with their prediction that his children will be 'kings hereafter'.
1.4.2. Con: That doesn't mean he has to pursue it.
1.5. Con: Macbeth is responsible for the deaths of several characters, including innocent children.
1.6. Pro: Tragic heroes generally have a "fatal flaw"; Macbeth's flaw seems to be his devotion to his wife.
1.6.1. Con: Macbeth's hamartia - fatal flaw - is only encouraged by Lady Macbeth. His own ambition is his true failing.
1.6.2. Pro: Lady Macbeth shows no hesitation in pursuing what the 'weird sisters' promise; she 'fears' Macbeth's nature, as he is ambitious but lacks the 'illness should attend it', thus making it clear that he has nobility where she does not \(Act 1, Sc v\).
1.7. Con: Despite his initial trepidation, Macbeth does end up murdering the king, who had just rewarded him for his brave deeds, and who is guest in his home.
1.7.1. Pro: The King taking up residence in Macbeth's house would have been a high honour; to murder him in such circumstances would be particularly shocking for Elizabethan audiences.
1.8. Con: Even though he has become king, just as the witches predicted, Macbeth's attempted murder of Banquo's son is completely his own idea.
1.8.1. Con: Yet spurred by the witches' words; in telling Macbeth that Banquo "shalt beget kings, though thou be none", they confirm that Macbeth's kingship will not carry down through his children, but through Banquo's. \(Act 1, Sc ii\)
1.9. Con: Once he has become king, Macbeth's hunger for power keeps on growing.