Discussion Title: Is nihilism right?

1. Nihilism is right.
1.1. Con: Nihilism leads to unnecessary suffering.
1.1.1. Pro: If nothing has meaning it doesn't matter if people believe things that are not true to their own benefit regardless of what you believe to be true \(which isn't definite either\)
1.1.2. Con: The consequence of nihilism doesn't deny its truth value.
1.2. Con: Nihilism is a dead end that leads to unproductivity.
1.2.1. Con: The veracity of the argument that nihilism leads to "unproductivity" has no weight on whether it is a bad ideology.
1.2.2. Con: Relative productivity doesn't disprove nihilism; nihilism disproves relative productivity.
1.2.3. Con: Productivity is a capitalist notion that compels workers to live lives based not on the true world or their own goals but on someone else's terms in a system that is not universally accepted.
1.2.3.1. Con: One can be productive doing something to further their own goals.
1.2.3.2. Con: Productivity also exists as a major element of communist systems, and is therefore not exclusively capitalist.
1.3. Pro: It is possible and reasonable to assume that life has no meaning in and of itself.
1.4. Pro: Many of the worst things ever done by humanity were done in pursuit of some lofty goal that did not justify the act.
1.4.1. Con: Just because some mistakes were made, doesn't mean you should stop trying at all. Instead of following others' values, you can discover your own way and take responsibility for yourself.
1.5. Con: When acted out unto the world, active nihilism entails the longing for annihilation both for yourself and your fellow man. This is not a tenable position to take.
1.5.1. Pro: Longing for self annihilation goes against what we know about human evolution.
1.5.1.1. Con: An animal having a longing for annihilation \(or anything\) is in no way prohibited by the mechanisms of evolution nor does it constitute a denial of the theory of evolution.
1.5.1.2. Con: Though that may be true, special cases still exist which do long for self-annihilation.
1.5.2. Con: There’s no such thing as active nihilism. Nihilism is descriptive. There’s no way to act it out unto the world.
1.5.3. Con: This is an appeal to consequences, and thus fallacious.
1.5.4. Con: Nihilism isn't a longing for destruction; it is a view that nothing is meaningful, which supports an indifference to destruction.
1.6. Pro: Moral values are all social constructs.
1.6.1. Pro: Other schools of thought rely on the values of certain subjective experiences and it is a leap of faith to try and ascribe meaning to those in terms of what you *should* do and think.
1.6.2. Con: [Neurosciences](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neuroscience) tend to support a biological [origin for morality](https://youtu.be/kcXKBf48Tf4?t=3m40s) and that concepts such as thought, free will, and consciousness will likely need to be revised in a physically [reductionistic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reductionism) way as neuroscientists discover more about the nature of brain function.
1.6.2.1. Con: Morals are not truly objective if they are dependent on a mind for existence.
1.6.3. Con: People of sound mind arent inclined to deal pain to another living creature without provocation. The fact that humans diagnose those who lack empathy \(narcissistic personality disorder\) as mentally ill indicates that people are naturally compassionate.
1.7. Con: Nihilism is practically impossible to adhere to.
1.7.1. Pro: Nihilists act as if things are meaningful. Thus their stated beliefs are inconsistent with their actions.
1.7.1.1. Con: Nihilism can be the knowledge that things are pointless, but electing to do something anyway. If nothing else, for the sake of passing time.
1.7.2. Con: There numerous forms of nihilism, but none that are anything other than descriptive. Nihilism isn’t a way of life. It tries to say what is \(or isn’t\), not what ought to be. It prescribed nothing, and so does not preclude any kind of behavior.
1.8. Pro: Arguing that there is nothing intrinsically moral follows the human experience where norms and standards of right and wrong change over the millenia.
1.8.1. Con: It is possible that humans are merely progressing towards the discovery of moral Universals.
1.8.1.1. Con: It is additionally possible that humans will come to see that there are no moral universals.
1.8.1.1.1. Pro: [Objective morality may not exist.](https://www.kialo.com/is-morality-objective-2649/2649.0=2649.1/=2649.1)
1.9. Con: To engage in such a debate inherently denies the truth of nihilism.
1.9.1. Con: The truth or falsity of nihilism isn’t predicated on whether or not people discuss it.
1.9.2. Pro: If the universe is not something that can carry purpose, it can not lack from it either. The mind's conception of nihilism or purposelessness does not capture whatever this is. Rather, a nihilist outlook reflects the orientation of the individual
1.9.3. Pro: The idea that life has no meaning and your death will be the end of your existence discounts your subjective experience in the present as well as those of others.
1.9.3.1. Pro: Every human who has ever died is remembered in some way.
1.10. Pro: One cannot prove [Descartes's Evil Demon thought experiment](http://existentialcomics.com/comic/81) is not the actual state of reality.
1.11. Con: Nihilism, as a view, is ineffective, for reasons analogous to [Pascal's Wager](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pascal%27s_Wager).