Discussion Title: Is Online Anonymity Good for Fostering Healthy Debate?

1. Online anonymity is good for fostering healthy debate on important issues.
1.1. Con: Avatar users are less likely to think critically about their thoughts before posting them, as they cannot be held accountable for them.
1.1.1. Pro: Often, such users will also be less discriminate about the way they present their ideas, too, which can make them come across more antagonist and/or rude.
1.2. Con: People can operate as "trolls" and abuse, harass and insult without any real world ramifications.
1.2.1. Con: Technology has advanced far enough that those who make truly dangerous threats can be duly arrested or warned against such behaviour.
1.2.2. Pro: Often, these people can disappear without trace, even when they have made absolutely disgusting comments, claims or threats.
1.2.3. Con: Anonymity also protects people in real life from trolling and abuse. If they knew your real identity they can do things like order a bunch of stuff on your door, swat you, call your employer until you're fired, etc. Some might even show up to harm/kill you because they didn't like your opinions online, for example when criticizing a religion and then a religious person that didn't like what you said and felt insulted by it decided to silence you for what you said.
1.3. Pro: People operating under an avatar feel more bold and willing to take bigger risks with their claims because the claim being proven false will not impact on their real world reputation. This creates a less conservative, more progressive discussion.
1.3.1. Con: One's convictions on a difficult subject should not be confined to the Internet: real people exact change, and if an individual is too scared to interact in the real world, then the strength of their beliefs is very questionable.
1.3.2. Con: Greater ability by participants to make poorly-substantiated claims reduces the overall quality of a debate.
1.3.2.1. Pro: Not having accountability fosters unchecked thoughts
1.3.3. Pro: Those holding beliefs that may be unpopular in their immediate social circle can feel emboldened to communicate those views in an environment that will not have negative repercussions.
1.4. Con: Bots - computer generated automatic profiles, with no human input - can be camouflaged among the crowd of avatars.
1.4.1. Pro: The existence of bots allows people to dismiss others they disagree with, by claiming they are mere bots.
1.4.2. Con: Bots can be camouflaged easily in a crowd of non-anonymous profiles too as seen on social networks like Facebook or Twitter.
1.5. Pro: People operating under an avatar can reach out to people that they would not interact with in normal life.
1.5.1. Con: Finding like-minded people is excellent, unless they are hate groups who can spur each other on and strengthen their bigoted views.
1.6. Con: "Real" profile users will be less willing to interact with an avatar account because there seems to be a level of deception involved which can seem off-putting.
1.6.1. Pro: Operating under an avatar will make interaction with "real" profiles less genuine.
1.6.2. Con: A persona can develop a reputation and credibility of equal value based on their content and not the status of their anonymity or lack thereof.
1.7. Pro: Operating under an avatar lets people explore the possibilities of using a different persona when engaging in conversation with others.
1.7.1. Con: -> See 1.2.
1.7.2. Pro: Anonymity can help shy or socially less capable people interact online because this can make their actions feel disconnected from themselves
1.8. Pro: Anonymity provides protection for oppressed people who may face real world harm or violence if their views were linked to them. For example [atheist bloggers](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/apr/07/secular-activist-who-criticised-islamism-hacked-to-death-in-bangladesh).