Discussion Title: Is Ostracizing People Bullying?

1. Ostracising people is bullying.
1.1. Con: [By definition](http://www.dictionary.com/browse/bullying?s=t), ignoring others doesn't involve the active use of force, intimidation, or influence to manipulate others.
1.1.1. Con: Ignoring and ostracizing is not the exact same thing. Use of force, intimidation and manipulation all play varying roles in ostracizing people.
1.1.2. Pro: Bullying is broadly and correctly understood as a way of hurting people that are percieved as weaker. Ostracizing can be done to people percieved as stronger.
1.1.2.1. Con: Someone can and often times will bully people physically or mentally stronger than them especially if they perceive them as such provided that they know they can get the upper hand due the social dynamics that arise.
1.2. Con: Ostracism can easily be countered by finding new people to socialize yourself to. Changing your habits will change the outcome.
1.2.1. Con: Sometimes there are no new people.
1.2.1.1. Pro: Some social environments prevent the entry of new people to befriend.
1.2.1.2. Con: In a world of over seven billion people, there are quite definitely other people to be found.
1.2.2. Con: Being ostracized skews the risk/reward ratio out of your favour making it a lot harder for you to make new friends.
1.2.3. Pro: This takes effort, but it is worthwhile making the time to find people and exert energy into social interactions.
1.3. Con: People have a right to choose who they want to associate themselves with.
1.3.1. Con: You can disassociate yourself without ostracizing them.
1.3.1.1. Con: This is fairly difficult.
1.3.2. Pro: Some people deserve to be ostracised.
1.3.2.1. Pro: Criminals should be separated from society in order to protect others.
1.3.2.1.1. Pro: Some criminals are indifferent to being ostracized anyway.
1.3.2.1.2. Con: A vital part of imprisonment is rehabilitation; ostracised prisoners are almost always intended to be released back into the community.
1.3.2.2. Pro: Children may be given a timeout to show reflect on their actions as serve as an example to others.
1.3.2.3. Con: This is a horrible subjective judgement call; it is never right to ostracise people entirely.
1.4. Pro: Ostracizing people impacts a person's [primary needs](https://www.psycholawlogy.com/2014/04/09/ignoring-excluding-others-personal-consequences-ostracizing/) such as belonging, control, self-esteem and meaningful existence.
1.4.1. Con: This depends on why somebody has been ostracised. If they have behaved in a way to merit such infringements on personal needs, then it may be reasonable.
1.5. Pro: Ostracism is abuse.
1.5.1. Pro: Deliberate ostracism is an act of cruelty on the part of a majority, to punish a minority; as such, it can only ever be abusive.
1.5.2. Pro: Being ostracized has a [negative impact](http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/research/2011/110510WilliamsOstracism.html) on the brain.
1.6. Con: Ostracism is an effective punishment for criminals.
1.6.1. Pro: Solitary confinement is one of the more extreme examples, and serves a useful purpose in prisons.
1.6.2. Con: It can actually make people worse. Isolation/solitary confinement has massively detrimental effects on the human psyche.
1.6.3. Pro: Ostracism is a tool to protect weak people.
1.6.3.1. Con: Ostracism can protect all people not just the weak ones.
1.6.3.2. Pro: The segregation of violent people can help protect everyone.
1.6.3.3. Pro: Segregating people with harmful viruses can protect those who are either infected or have an immunity to such viruses.