Discussion Title: Is political correctness detrimental to society?

1. Political correctness is detrimental to society.
1.1. Con: Political correctness is a necessary means to combat hate speech.
1.1.1. Con: A broadly accepted PC culture won't eliminate hate speech, because instead of allowing those bad ideas out in the open, and combatting them with better ideas, you're simply driving hate speech underground and making it part of the counterculture.
1.1.1.1. Pro: It is indeed better to have those bad ideas out in the open and allow for peer pressure and normative culture to shape them. People don't change their minds when they feel unheard or persecuted, but change can occur when they learn from others and come to realize that their beliefs are in the small minority.
1.1.1.1.1. Con: A person cannot realize their beliefs are extreme when those views are never openly challenged. In fact, it is very easy to withdraw into a social bubble where you don't have to face criticism for your words and thoughts, even on public platforms like social media.
1.1.1.2. Con: Hate speech is not simply an argument or an idea that can be countered with reason, it is often pure verbal violence. PC culture is not saying people should be allowed to hit other people in the face so they can be hit back harder, it forbids hitting them in the first place. If physical violence is forbidden, so should verbal violence.
1.1.1.3. Con: The Nazis' ideas got out in the open where they could be combated. Then they got elected.
1.1.1.3.1. Pro: Populist statements and viewpoints appeal to people's emotions which is in direct conflict with rational thought. You cannot beat fear- or anger-based propaganda with logic.
1.1.1.3.2. Pro: Unfortunately, allowing bigots to say whatever they like doesn't mean they can be 'defeated in verbal combat'. Often, the opposite is more the case.
1.1.1.3.2.1. Con: Censoring someone's views does not prove that they are incorrect or immoral.
1.1.1.3.2.2. Pro: The nature of extremist and fanatic views is that they are not easily changed by civil discourse, because the premises of such discourse are denied in the first place by way of using insults, stating facts without providing evidence, outright denying other positions without crafting a counter-argument, evading questions by acting hurt etc.
1.1.1.3.3. Con: The Nazis’ ideas could emphatically not be openly challenged - due to some of the most extreme political censorship of free speech in history. A compelling lesson to not censor speech if ever one existed.
1.1.1.3.3.1. Con: This is an irrelevant equivocation. It's completely disingenuous to draw an equivalence between the book burning and media control policies of the Nazis, and encouraging the use of politically correct language. The parent comment observed that they were elected on a platform where they could say whatever fascist, bigoted things they wanted.
1.1.2. Con: The first problem about hate speech is who gets to determine what hate speech is. Here lately, hate speech is any speech that one does not agree with and there lies the problem.
1.1.2.1. Con: Hate speech has some clearly defined characteristics and "disagreeing with someone's opinion" is not one of them.
1.1.2.1.1. Pro: Hate speech needs to include insults / personal attacks and/or threats of violence to be considered hate speech.
1.1.2.1.2. Pro: Hate speech needs to include a provocative statement of outright falsehoods, conspiracy theories or stereotypes to be considered hate speech.
1.1.2.1.3. Pro: Hate speech is often reductive and agressive and therefore easily distinguishable from a well thought out argument.
1.1.2.2. Pro: The added issue here, hate speech is a trigger phrase, letting your "comrades" know which side of the political compass you fall on. The phrase is currently being used to shut down ideas, and speech that does not align with SJW ideals. This is straight up an attempt at implicating totalitarianism.
1.2. Con: A civilised society requires some level of established political correctness, and civilisation is beneficial to society.
1.2.1. Pro: A civilised society needs a political discourse where issues can be discussed on their merits, without every discussion getting derailed by ad-hominem attacks.
1.2.1.1. Pro: Ad-hominem attacks and vitriol can very effectively shut down a discussion, even if only a small minority is behind those attacks.
1.2.1.1.1. Con: PC is used to shut down the conversation about important and difficult topics \(e.g. police brutality in high-crime areas, false accusations within “me too”, etc.\). It’s vital that logical fallacies be aired and revealed and challenged and supported if need be. All apparent fallacies must be analyzed to determine if they are actually fallacious. The alternative is falling into the “fallacy fallacy”, deciding that because something appears fallacious that it is dismissed out of hand.
1.2.1.2. Con: PC culture is itself uncivilized and has no "political discourse", unless we consider [hitting people with bike locks](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-intersect/wp/2017/05/29/a-man-clobbered-trump-supporters-with-a-bike-lock-the-internet-went-looking-for-him/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.21769d57429f), [chanting](https://www.campusreform.org/?ID=10607) and [calling anyone who disagrees with you a racist](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/homo-consumericus/201410/ben-affleck-sam-harris-gross-racist) "discourse".
1.2.1.3. Con: In no way, shape or form does PC further issues to be "discussed on their merits". In fact it perpetuates the opposite: limiting speech, thought and expression which is required to discuss issues on their merits.
1.2.2. Pro: Agreeing to PC ascription of labels is a way of defining society as tolerant and accepting.
1.2.2.1. Con: PC makes discussion about using the "correct" use of language rather than ideas.
1.2.2.1.1. Pro: The James Damore [Memo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google%27s_Ideological_Echo_Chamber) is a case in point.
1.2.2.2. Con: The PC opinion at the height of Nazi Germany would have been to think lower of Jews etc. PC culture does not automatically equate to tolerance, it simply stifles unfashionable opinions of the time.
1.2.3. Con: Political correctness creates an inhospitable environment for free speech and by extension, free thought.
1.2.3.1. Pro: Some forms of PC culture can promote a bubble where even earnest discussion is socially sanctioned.
1.2.3.2. Pro: Political correctness is purely censorship and does not enable free speech. Nothing can be said in the presence of political correctness that could not be said without it.
1.2.3.2.1. Con: Censorship of some speech is necessary for the free speech of others.
1.2.3.2.1.1. Pro: The protection of these groups' rights against this kind of discrimination is just as important as the protection of the free speech of the majority.
1.2.3.2.1.2. Pro: A culture of political correctness protects minorities and those who feel outcast.
1.2.3.2.1.2.1. Pro: PC culture supports terminology designed to ensure groups typically deflected, discouraged, or emotionally and psychologically harmed by improper terminology are welcomed to discourse, thereby encouraging it by removing linguistic ad hominem.
1.2.3.2.1.2.2. Pro: Political correctness enables free speech for those that would be attacked personally otherwise.
1.2.3.2.1.2.2.1. Pro: Stating that women are more acting in the realm of emotions rather than logic, unlike men, discredits the ideas of women in a one-on-one debate. Using PC language means not discrediting the other person for what they are but listening to what they say. This improves discourse.
1.2.3.2.1.2.2.1.1. Pro: Although these are biological facts, these facts are not valid reasons to disregard an argument put forth.
1.2.3.2.1.2.2.1.2. Pro: The more emotionally-minded are still capable of logic; just as the more logically-minded are still capable of emotion.
1.2.3.2.1.2.2.2. Pro: A common mindset perpetuated that Black people are inferior will discredit the ideas put forward by African Americans.
1.2.3.2.1.2.2.2.1. Con: This is not a common mindset. This is called being a racist, and voicing opinions like this will get you stigmatized and scorned.
1.2.3.2.1.2.3. Con: PC culture is actually detrimental to the groups it is supposed to protect. If it is not possible to discuss lack of education or a high rate of illiteracy in \[Group X\], it is impossible to identify the reasons and help this group. Not wanting to hurt their feelings is a lesser good.
1.2.3.2.1.2.3.1. Con: PC culture does not seek to eliminate valid and factual criticism. It is possible to talk about illiteracy or other social issues in Group X without perpetuating harmful stereotypes.
1.2.3.2.1.2.3.1.1. Con: While this is true in principle, the reality is not true. An example is Islam in the US. The two parties are the hidden bigots who hate Islam, and the dominant PC individuals shielding Islam from all remarks not directly pro. Those who critique Islam are niche groups in the US, and are often criticized for being anti-Islamist. Even if not intended, it occurs none-the-less.
1.2.3.2.1.2.4. Pro: It makes more sense that the majority learn to be politically correct than small minorities learn to deal with suffering.
1.2.3.2.1.2.5. Con: This does not apply to those who are outcast for holding what are deemed to be un-PC views, which can make these outcast groups feel silenced.
1.2.3.2.1.2.5.1. Con: This draws a false equivalence between two types of outcast. You should be condemned for being racist. You should NOT be condemned for being black.
1.2.3.2.1.2.5.2. Con: Anti-PC people claim personal feelings should not matter in a debate and should not be taken into consideration, although their claims of being "silenced" and "censored" are also a result of their personal feelings being hurt, as they are not actually persecuted or censored.
1.2.3.2.1.2.5.3. Pro: Over time this can encourage them to take more drastic action in order to be heard.
1.2.3.2.1.2.6. Con: Political correctness creates a facade to protect one group or individual against truth and fact, often to the disadvantage of another group.
1.2.3.2.1.2.7. Con: A culture of free and open expression allows everybody to speak, regardless of whether they're outcasts.
1.2.3.2.1.2.7.1. Con: Rejecting PC is not guaranteeing free and open expression as it allows loud people with prejudices to shout down and over reasonable debate with hate filled rhetoric.
1.2.3.2.2. Pro: 'Correctness' can be objectively measured. Politics are inherently subjective. Therefore to label 'correctness' as 'political' is to make the phrase itself a misnomer, and cease any claim of being truly correct.
1.2.3.3. Con: -> See 1.2.3.2.1.2.
1.2.3.4. Pro: PC culture may establish a moral hegemony of a single group, thus forcefully coercing non-PC people to change their views. This may lead to censorship on one hand, and compelled speech \(and thought\) on the other.
1.2.3.4.1. Pro: PC culture is far more likely to censor conservative viewpoints than progressive left viewpoints. The "truths" of progressive viewpoints are seen as axiomatically true and license to demonize anyone who doesn't conform.
1.2.3.4.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.2.1.1.
1.2.3.4.1.2. Con: Criticism is not censorship.
1.2.3.4.2. Con: PC culture is not closed off to counter-arguments in general, it just sets a standard on how these arguments should be worded \(without verbally discriminating others\). Suggesting that basic rules for what constitutes civil discourse could lead to censorship is a fallacious slippery slope argument.
1.2.3.5. Con: An inhospitable environment to entirely free speech and free will is not necessarily detrimental to society.
1.2.3.5.1. Pro: For example, making Holocaust denial illegal, as many nations do, is of greater benefit to society because of the historical and cultural significance of the event.
1.2.3.6. Con: Fighting against insulting speech is not attacking free speech.
1.2.3.6.1. Con: In order for speech to be truly free, it must be free to be insulting.
1.2.3.6.2. Pro: An example would be talking about the crime rate in black communities. For someone \(especially a Caucasian\) to merely bring it up -- even in a polite and civil manner -- can be very triggering to people. Out of fear of offending these people and being seen as a bigot, all comments that may put blame on the minority or put them in a negative light, are avoided.
1.2.3.6.3. Pro: An example would be an incident in 2016 between Britain and Air China Media Group, where an apology was demanded and a magazine \("Wings of China"\) was banned for publishing an article warning passengers of dangerous areas in London that happened to be mostly populated with Black and Pakistani people. PC was put ahead of safety.
1.2.3.7. Con: Part of free thought constitutes the suggestions found in PC culture. To prohibit PC culture in society would be to close that area of deliberation, thereby threatening free speech even further.
1.2.3.7.1. Pro: If people advocate banning PC culture because they want more free thought and open criticism, they should not have a problem with being criticized for their choice of words. Yet they do not wish to hear such criticism. This is a paradoxon.
1.2.3.8. Con: Political correctness does not limit thoughts or speech topics, it merely influences way of speaking demanding that claims are done respectfully and avoid mental shortcuts \(a.k.a stereotypes\).
1.2.3.8.1. Pro: Freedom of expression and respect for others are not mutually exclusive. Political correctness has been misunderstood as an attempt to censor our beliefs, but really, it is about the importance of respecting others regardless of differing views.
1.2.3.9. Con: Freedom of speech does not mean freedom from criticism or backlash. It means not being persecuted or punished by law for voicing your thoughts. A person's right to free speech is not threatened by other people criticizing the person's words.
1.2.3.10. Pro: Political correctness leads to the [banning of books](http://www.ala.org/advocacy/bbooks/frequentlychallengedbooks/classics) and ideas that differ from our own. This damages growth in knowledge.
1.2.3.10.1. Con: The listed instances where the challenges and bans occurred because the ideas differed from that of the challenger were challenged on that or a "Christian sensibility" basis, not on the basis underlying political correctness.
1.2.3.11. Con: It is our society's ["call out"](https://www.npr.org/2018/04/13/601971617/the-callout) or "cancel" culture that is responsible for the stifling of free thought.  It is possible to promote political correctness effectively and politely.
1.2.3.11.1. Pro: The current culture of aggressively and vehemently calling out "PC violators" as opposed to offering constructive criticism is detrimental to allowing "offenders" to learn from mistakes and grow as people - and in some instances \(especially when the violation took place some length of time ago\), ignores the fact that the person in question has already done exactly that.
1.2.3.11.1.1. Con: This is victim blaming. It is not the job of minorities to educate people on how to express themselves in a respectful manner. It can be asked of every citizen to familiarize themselves with current social movements and issues, especially with so much information readily available. Ignorance is not an excuse.
1.2.3.11.2. Con: If someone made an honest mistake saying or doing something offensive, it shouldn't be hard to prove exactly that and give an earnest apology. However, what the person said or did is often indicative of their actual racist/sexist/classist/... views, so they will defend or even repeat what they said / did. Harsher criticism is entirely justified here.
1.2.4. Con: A really civilized society would be able to discuss any matters despite the model of communication.
1.2.5. Pro: Political correctness is like many ideals in society, such as the prevention of crime, that are essentially positive goals, but which can be taken to negative extremes. While these extremes must be avoided, this does not mean that the ideal itself should be done away with.
1.2.6. Pro: Political correctness is basically a secondary organizing rule below legality, thus it is a form of etiquette and can be beneficial, like "help the elderly". For example, talking rude to old people would be equivalent to violating PC.
1.2.6.1. Con: It is a "secondary organizing rule" that has not been voted for democratically and is greatly influenced by the media. Not so long ago racist views would have been quite PC and it takes brave outspoken people to counter such opinions. It should not take bravery and risk of shame to counter the popular belief of the time.
1.2.7. Con: Civility is achieved by how ideas are spread rather than what ideas are spread.
1.2.8. Con: What is civilized and acceptable in public discourse is fluid and changes geographically, by group, by topic. There’s no way to have a universal “Political correctness”.
1.2.8.1. Con: Those affected by non-PC expression typically tell you, and have spoken for ages, about certain words, phrases, or images which inherently disparage them.
1.2.8.2. Con: Political correctness in itself is always subject of public discourse and changing across regions and communities. There is no need for a "universal" political correctness.
1.2.8.3. Con: The idea of political correctness is not a fixed set of rules, but a continuously developing consensus of what is offensive and what isn't. Although people might disagree on the details, most people in one country / culture could name something that is generally viewed as improper or hateful to say in their particular culture.
1.3. Con: -> See 1.2.3.2.1.2.
1.4. Pro: Political correctness inhibits some forms of artistic creativity.
1.4.1. Pro: PC culture makes it hard to distinguish between satire and insulting language, which inhibits satirical expression.
1.4.1.1. Con: Political culture has no impact on this distinguishability whatsoever, only the ability of the speaker to properly express themselves does.
1.4.1.2. Con: Satire often has a very clear context \(like a TV show format\) so that it is easily distinguishable from statements made in earnest.
1.4.1.3. Con: A person can always claim what they said was meant to be ironic, sarcastic or satirical, with or without PC culture. You can't stop people from lying.
1.4.2. Pro: Blanking out certain words from rap songs on radio broadcastings is a form of censoring culturally significant words.
1.4.2.1. Con: A broadcaster can decide for themselves which content they deem appropriate for their audience. It would only be censorship if the government enforced any kind of blanking out words.
1.4.2.2. Con: The censorship of vulgarity has nothing to do with political correctness, since it is not politically motivated. It is just a puritan - and rather conservative - impulse to protect children from any sort of naughty influences.
1.4.3. Con: [Research suggests](https://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?referer=&httpsredir=1&article=1921&context=articles) the opposite is the case in mixed-sex environments.
1.5. Pro: -> See 1.2.3.
1.6. Con: Political correctness tries to provide us with a means of establishing more informed beliefs independent of cultural bias.
1.6.1. Pro: [The language](https://www.ted.com/talks/lera_boroditsky_how_language_shapes_the_way_we_think?utm_campaign=social&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=facebook.com&utm_content=talk&utm_term=social-science) we use helps to shape the way we view the world.
1.6.2. Con: Modern PC culture already has inherent bias for certain groups and against others. E.g. it is currently more PC to say something like 'I hate white men' than if the gender and races were reversed, rather than it be simply unacceptable to say something like that about anyone period.
1.6.2.1. Con: Modern PC culture is contextual. It's being implemented to try and create a safe place for minorities who have a history of being persecuted. As White men are not a minority and don't face systematic oppression, those same rules don't always apply.
1.6.2.2. Con: Simply reversing one aspect of the sentence 'I hate *Blank* people' isn't effective because it doesn't take in the larger context. If we were to reverse aspects of history in which they were persecuted then this would be less acceptable.
1.6.3. Con: Political correctness often hides the truth through fear. There is no agreed upon standard of what is politically correct and the parameters are constantly shifting, making it ever more difficult to be direct when addressing a sensitive topic.
1.6.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.8.
1.6.4. Pro: Granting access to marginalized voices and analyzing how arguments rely on cultural biasses challenges us to make more conscientious and rigorous arguments.
1.6.5. Con: PC culture is cultural bias in and of itself.
1.6.5.1. Con: Political correctness is the the attempt to mitigate already existing biases by limiting language to a more bias-free domain. If no biases existed, political correctness wouldn't \[need to\] either.
1.6.5.1.1. Con: In practical terms, there is no historical or empirical basis for eliminating biases. Human psychology is biased by evolutionary necessity and there is no reason to anticipate eliminating them. A far better approach is to recognize biases but emphasize critical thinking and to accept and work through cultural differences.
1.7. Pro: It is only detrimental to society if it is enforced with such authority that it completely ignores and prohibits the original intention of the notion of free speech. Depending on certain environments political correctness is needed just to seem civil and rational. If such authority does come along and starts harshly enforcing then we will be in trouble.
1.8. Pro: Political correctness masks the fact that good intentions are more important than proper words.
1.8.1. Con: PC culture can concern itself with intentions, rather than words.
1.8.1.1. Con: But it doesn't, that's the problem.
1.8.2. Pro: Coercing or shaming people into being politically correct only changes their behavior, not their beliefs.
1.8.2.1. Pro: This won't solve the underlying problems in society, but will merely hide them and allow us to forget them. For example, the rise of overtly discriminator behavior in the US after the election of Trump. PC culture hid this, but did nothing to fix it.
1.8.2.2. Pro: The only place to discuss these issues for the shamed is in echo chambers of like-minded individuals.
1.8.3. Pro: PC conflates intent with impact and assigns motivations to others' thought processes, thereby altering intended meaning. It also directs focus away from a message and onto the messenger by first and foremost looking for offense in anything/everything said, even if via mistakes. Consequently, the substance of a message is sacrificed for finding fault.
1.8.4. Pro: Political correctness hides our dark traits lulling us into an illusion that we are alike or agree.
1.8.4.1. Con: Being polite and not outright insulting people does not necessarily suggest that we are hiding our true thoughts. An opinion can still be expressed without it becoming an insult or attack on others.
1.8.5. Pro: Political correctness and politeness are not the same. You can be polite without being politically correct and be rude by being politically correct. "Kill all white people" is a politically correct phrase. "Women are biologically different than men" is not political correct, but it's not a bad statement to make even if it's only to generate debate.
1.8.6. Pro: PC is traumatizing to those who want to freely think and collaborate with people benevolently that they are afraid to do anything, like "freezing".
1.8.6.1. Con: There is hardly any free speech supressed by PC. The ideas can as easily expressed in a different way.
1.8.6.1.1. Con: Since PC's goal is to avoid offense, it can suppress any speech that some might perceive to be offensive.  For example, accusing a black person of a crime can be offensive to that person and the black community at large.  Even if an idea is expressed in a different way, it is very likely that someone will still be offended.
1.8.6.1.1.1. Con: PC's goal is to ensure the non-suppression of marginalised groups via language. For example, if the n-word is freely used in political discourse, then black people won't be welcome in the political sphere. Its goal is NOT to avoid offence at any and all costs, like dismantling the justice system so black people can't be accused of crime. This is absolutely facile, scaremongering, straw-manning, and simply not true.
1.8.7. Con: If a person's intentions are pure and they do not wish to offend, it should not be a problem for them to educate themselves on how to present their thoughts in a compassionate and respectful way. They should have an interest in conveying their message without being misunderstood. Choosing one's words carefully shows respect and genuine interest.
1.8.8. Pro: People at one point could stop trying to help those who need help most \(like underprivileged groups\), because they are afraid to offend them but cannot be PC in handling their circumstances.
1.8.9. Con: Intent is difficult to convey outside of conduct and the words one uses, so using proper words helps convey good intentions.
1.8.9.1. Con: This is why we should be charitable and forgiving towards interpreting the words of others. Saving condemnation for a time such that conduct confirms malicious intent or intent to harm.
1.8.9.2. Con: "Proper words" with the number of quickly growing taboos has become a minefield for those who may not have the social awareness, cosmopolitan outlook or verbal skills of a techno-denizen surfing the bleeding edge of the latest global zeitgeist.
1.8.9.2.1. Pro: This is a calamity for those who do not use progressive left "newspeak" either through ignorance or conscious disagreement with progressive ideas.
1.8.9.2.1.1. Con: In the case of true ignorance, most people saying non-PC things "on accident" will not suffer harsh consequences, since their ignorance is usually evident.
1.8.9.2.1.2. Con: In the case of disagreement with progressive ideas, well thought out counter-arguments will always be accepted by people who are pro-PC for the sake of civil debate. Using a certain rhetoric in order to gain moral high ground is a common tactic used by people from all political directions, not just the left. People who use it are not worth trying to argue with anyway.
1.8.9.2.2. Con: If you are not familiar with the "latest global zeitgeist", other people's reactions to your statements should point you in the right direction. From there, it takes 5 minutes of Google, this is not asking a lot.
1.8.9.3. Pro: In courts of law, the words that people have used are often put into evidence to prove intent.
1.8.10. Pro: PC culture can act as a mask for hateful ideologies if the speaker uses the accepted phrases.
1.8.10.1. Con: It's hugely disingenuous to say that the proponents of hateful ideologies are impossible to identify in a world where the use of bigoted language is denounced.
1.8.10.2. Con: This claim is fatuous. Any hateful ideologues can mask their ideas with a bit of intelligence and eloquence. The existence of baseline standards for politically acceptable language is not a determining factor.
1.8.10.2.1. Pro: Insults and hate speech can easily be masked by claiming they were supposed to be funny or ironic or by outright denying what you've said \(as can be seen in politics\). Banning PC culture does not stop people from lying.
1.8.10.3. Con: [The language we learn and use often shapes our mind](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-biolinguistic-turn/201702/how-the-language-we-speak-affects-the-way-we-think)- so those who would spout hateful ideology could turn away from that ideology because they are using different language that reshapes their mind.
1.8.10.4. Con: Hateful ideologies tend to rely on specific language to get across their message, so using PC terminology would be counter-intuitive for their messengers.
1.8.10.5. Pro: PC culture leads to people afraid of backlash hiding their actual beliefs. That's bad, because truly hateful people cannot be identified in such a world.
1.8.10.5.1. Con: [People have already done this for decades.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shy_Tory_Factor) It's thus disingenuous to say that this is a problem with political correctness.
1.8.10.6. Pro: So long as Nazis are willing to march in the streets \(Charlottesville\), they can be seen, spotted, and challenged/ridiculed/whatever. However, PC culture camouflages Nazis by "social ban", chasing them into the shadows, making hate ultimately harder to confront.
1.8.10.6.1. Con: Nazis in the shadows pose less of a threat than Nazis getting elected.
1.9. Pro: Political correctness stifles discourse.
1.9.1. Con: -> See 1.2.3.2.1.2.1.
1.9.2. Con: Given that non-PC viewpoints are really those whose underlying premises consist of feelings of supremacy based on characteristics such as faith, race, orientation, ethnicity, gender, ability, and national origin, or of misinformation or wilful ignorance, legitimate debate is very easy to hold while being politically correct.
1.9.2.1. Con: All criticism that can be linked to an aspect of faith, race, orientation, ethnicity, gender, ability or national origin, can be considered by some to be non-PC. Assuming that all such criticism is based on a feeling of supremacy is itself a bigoted gross over-generalisation that can, and very often does, in fact shut down legitimate debate.
1.9.2.1.1. Con: On the contrary, the above comment is not an assumption that all criticism linked to faith, race, orientation, ethnicity, gender, ability, or national origin is non-PC, but rather an explanation of what makes something non-PC.
1.9.2.2. Con: There are plenty of people opposed to PC viewpoints, such as [Stephen Fry](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eJQHakkViPo), who simply feel that PC culture's disproportionate focus on subtle forms oppression and microagressions actually has the opposite of its intended effect.
1.9.3. Pro: Political correctness prevents effective, rational arguments against far-right thought, as it seeks to attack the words used by such groups rather than the floors in their beliefs.
1.9.3.1. Con: A lot of non-PC views are based on false premises - for example, white supremacy - and treating these views as if they are on par with evidence based discussions has legitimised dangerous and destructive movements.
1.9.3.2. Con: Political correctness forces people to consider the meaning behind the words and terms they use, thus educating them on why these words arise and what can be done to stop these formative conditions.
1.9.3.2.1. Con: There is nothing harmful about anyone using any word. The harm is solely the listener's internalization/interpretation of said word. I can say mean things, you can feel harmed. You can say nice things and I feel harmed.
1.9.4. Con: Political correctness forces people to articulate their ideas more rigorously, without resorting to a lazy disparaging of downtrodden groups as a rhetorical strategy.
1.9.4.1. Con: Political correctness doesn't force people to articulate ideas more rigorously, it only forces people to attempt to articulate arguments in a manner deemed inoffensive. For any progress to be achieved in society, people have to risk offending someone.
1.9.4.2. Pro: Political correctness also forces people to address the cause of stereotypes \(positive and negative\) rather than simply accepting them as given.
1.9.4.3. Con: Only those who want to invest time in being disparaged, outcast, insulted, accused of being racist, bigoted, misogynist, etc. will learn the essential skills to articulate their ideas more effectively. The others will just stay quiet and fester their ideas in underground groups. We need respect and moderation in PC culture, on both 'sides'.
1.9.5. Pro: -> See 1.2.3.
1.9.6. Con: The narrative that people with opposing opinions are being silenced systematically, that certain thoughts and ideas are forbidden etc. is contradictory to the fact that anti-PC advocates have huge platforms for voicing their criticism, especially social media, sometimes even national television. Discourse is therefore not stifled.
1.9.7. Con: The backlash against PC culture, ridiculing every criticism of language as being "SJW" and "triggered" is also a form of trying to silence people and not conducive to healthy discourse either.
1.9.8. Con: Anti-PC advocates draw an arbitrary line between a factual statement and one that is based on personal feelings. This ignores the fact that all human thoughts and actions are based on some kind of emotion. Anti-PC disregards and invalidates some emotions \(feeling hurt\) while favoring others \(feeling angry\) and employs a self-referential view of "logic and reason". This is only helping discourse on the surface while it actually silences groups that are deemed "too sensitive".
1.9.9. Pro: Political correctedness promotes anxiety in people who are too worried to speak about identity related issues for fear of being labeled a bigot.
1.9.10. Con: Political correctness helps to separate emotions out from discussion.
1.9.11. Pro: The only way to shift collective or individual thought away from undesirable ideals is to be able to debate concepts publicly. In this way, members of society are able to see the flaws in certain modes of thinking. If we were to shy away from topics considered controversial such debates would be impossible.
1.9.12. Pro: PC culture stifles the "marketplace of ideas", wherein all ideas are welcome in public discourse, but the bad ones are weeded out, and only the best, most beneficial ideas become broadly accepted.
1.9.12.1. Con: Ideas that are strong enough to represent legitimate arguments against ideas defended by PC culture are not shut down so much as are ideas not strong enough to represent legitimate arguments.
1.9.12.1.1. Pro: When PC culture is about successfully debating and criticizing inherently oppressive ontologies it is good.
1.9.12.2. Con: Without protections against hate speech for minorities, many would not feel comfortable themselves contributing to the free marketplace of ideas.
1.9.12.3. Con: Someone facing backlash after yelling "n***r" at people does not destroy the market place of ideas.
1.9.12.3.1. Con: No-one is arguing that straw-man claim. The claim was that PC culture is stifling the market place of ideas. Examples of this, using the particular word you have focussed on, would be the censoring of work by [Mark Twain](https://www.theguardian.com/books/booksblog/2011/jan/05/censoring-mark-twain-n-word-unacceptable); over-reaction to mistakes by innocent [presenters](https://www.theguardian.com/media/2014/may/11/bbc-dj-david-lowe-quits-racism-row-jeremy-clarkson); and [debate](https://www.tolerance.org/magazine/fall-2011/straight-talk-about-the-nword) of the double standard of use of the word based on the colour of the speaker's skin.
1.9.12.3.1.1. Con: Opposing liberal use of the n-word is not a straw man issue- it is an example of political correctness at work. The example that you've presented could equally be called a straw man on the same basis - no one here is arguing Mark Twain should be censored; he's a product of its time. Both sides can cherry-pick. But if there is political correctness we disagree with, and political correctness that we do agree with, then political correctness cannot be point-blank detrimental.
1.10. Pro: A culture of political correctness paves the way for authoritarianism.
1.10.1. Con: Political correctness does not censor critique of the government.
1.10.1.1. Con: Once a government is given power to restrict the speech of individuals that meet certain criteria, the ability to restrict speech falls to the hands of those evaluating these criteria. The people evaluating the criteria may not have sufficient oversight, and could then use the power to restrict speech in a way unintended by the original restriction.
1.10.1.2. Pro: Political correctness is not a movement in support of the government enforcing certain speech, though it may include official government documents using PC terms and supporting political candidates who use PC terms while adhering to the underlying point of PC culture.
1.10.1.2.1. Con: There are many instances where activists have called upon government to enforce PC speech. Examples: banning books with the N-word, Canada's bill C-16, FCC regulations in general.
1.10.1.3. Con: Government can bypass this indirectly.  They can hide authoritarian legislation behind a front of benevolence, as Canada did with Bill C-16.[forums.nexusmods.com](https://forums.nexusmods.com/index.php?/topic/5211120-jordan-peterson-bill-c-16-social-justice-tribunals-and-what-it-means-for-Canada/)  [jordanbpeterson.com](https://jordanbpeterson.com/philosophy/debate-bill-c-16/)
1.10.2. Con: There are many contributors to authoritarianism, political correctness does not carry that full load.
1.10.3. Pro: We even have examples of governments moving from controlled speech to compelled speech. For instance, [Bill C16](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compelled_speech#Compelled_speech_\(Canada\)), in Canada, compels people to use genderless pronouns - an example of government authoritarianism driven by political correctness.
1.10.4. Con: Authoritarianism is not necessarily always bad, as some alternatives - such as lawlessness - may be worse.
1.10.5. Pro: Whoever would have the authority to determine what is politically correct would have far too much power.
1.10.6. Pro: If the government becomes the arbiter of what's considered "correct speech", it will use that power for self-preservation, as many authoritarian governments have throughout history.
1.10.6.1. Con: This has never come about as a result of widespread public demand for the normalisation of inoffensive language, which is what political correctness is. The 'slippery slope' argument is based on a non-sequitur fallacy. Arguing that banning the n-word from a popular news outlet going to lead to an Orwellian dystopia is cheap, scaremongering, offensive nonsense.
1.10.6.2. Con: Neither is Political Correctness enforced by the government, nor should it be. It's nothing more than a social contract that is in itself subject to public discourse.
1.11. Con: The vastly disproportionate backlash to it is certainly far more destructive.
1.11.1. Con: The argument is not logically valid. It could be true that anti-PC culture is more detrimental than PC culture, but that PC culture is still detrimental.
1.11.2. Pro: A dismissal of political correctness offends, then alienates, then silences, then dehumanises already marginalised groups. This contributes to the legitimisation of violence against them. The use of PC language is comparatively innocuous. There is nothing harmful, for instance, in white people not using the n-word.
1.11.2.1. Con: Policing language on grounds of political correctness is not innocuous. The shutting down of legitimate debate due to victimisation of those not holding a politically correct viewpoint can prevent sound decisions from being made. Harmful effects of this could range from minor unfairness to horrific miscarriages of justice.
1.11.2.1.1. Con: This criticism is only valid in the case of unfair verdicts in matters of some importance. How many of these are actually made because people are restricted from using the n-word? Or from using homophobic slurs? Or denying someone's preferred gender identity? etc.
1.11.2.2. Con: -> See 1.9.3.2.1.
1.11.3. Con: The backlash is not more destructive, given that the speaking of non-PC speech does not physically harm anyone.
1.11.3.1. Con: 'Jump Jim Crow' has indirectly harmed a great number of black Americans by dehumanising them and legitimising violence and oppressive laws against them. We should never underestimate the power of speech. It is because of political correctness that greatly physically harmful things like Jim Crow are no longer accepted.
1.11.4. Pro: Criticism of PC culture gets personal pretty quickly, sometimes even in the form of forecasting shitstorms from "special snowflakes" and "triggered SJWs" before any discourse has actually happened, discouraging people from entering discussions.
1.11.5. Con: Defending free speech is the single most important act any American can make. This argument ignores the fact that political correctness is, in essence, limiting free speech and expression, the very framework of the United States.
1.11.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.9.
1.11.5.2. Con: Political correctness opens the dialogue to more members of society who don't feel they are allowed to speak or ever be heard. It opens discourse.
1.11.6. Pro: The current U.S. President is seen by many of his supporters as a direct counter to "PC Culture", and [most agree](https://www.npr.org/2017/11/07/562351087/president-trump-was-elected-a-year-ago-and-americans-are-feeling-aggrieved) that he is a destructive figure \(or at least is not good\).
1.11.6.1. Con: Yet it can be argued that his rise is due as much to the shortcomings of PC culture, which have reasonably frustrated many independents and moderate liberals. Because they, in turn, have chosen to pursue 3rd party candidates, not to vote, or in some cases to embrace Trump - all as a protest against the far left, PC culture, who they feel \(fairly\) no longer represents them.
1.11.7. Con: The backlash is not disproportionate, given the sharp increase in over-sensitivity to perceived offence in many forums.