Discussion Title: Is Respect The Root Cause Of Relationship Success?

1. Respect is the root cause of relationship success
1.1. Con: Two individuals can completely respect each other and still engage in conflict, even finding themselves at "irreconcilable differences." Respect only helps make that conflict more civilized and "healthy."
1.2. Pro: When respect is given from both sides, a connection is made.
1.2.1. Con: A connection can be made without respect, even forged on a lack of respect; this is a very tenuous type of statement.
1.2.2. Pro: If one enters a relationship with mutual respect, the chances of it lasting and being positive is far higher than if a relationship is entered into with contempt.
1.3. Con: Respect is not the only cause of relationship success.
1.3.1. Con: While it may not be the only cause, the claim is it’s the root cause. When both parties hear each other out and respect each other a healthy relationship transpires.
1.3.2. Pro: Love could be argued as the 'root cause' of relationship success.
1.3.2.1. Con: This assumes only romantic relationships; there are an infinitude of different types of relationship in the world to consider.
1.3.2.1.1. Con: Love is not exclusive to romantic relationships.
1.3.3. Pro: Compromise, hard work, and any number of other factors are equally if not more important than respect.
1.3.4. Pro: Trust and interests in common are equally important in a relationship.
1.4. Pro: Absolutely. Note: the claim does not specify "marital relationship". Respect for the other and for self is the root of having healthy boundaries. Healthy boundaries allow for a sense of self to develop, and sustains personal growth.
1.5. Pro: Respect goes far deeper than just agreeing or compromise.
1.5.1. Pro: Respect is something that endures for longer than more superficial relationship elements; agreement or compromise are specific to a given moment or discussion.
1.5.2. Con: Respect is secondarily defined as showing 'due regard' for another's feelings or wishes; 'due regard' may well mean compromise or agreement without anything more substantial behind it.
1.5.3. Pro: Respect is primarily defined as "a feeling of deep admiration for someone or something elicited by their abilities, qualities, or achievements"; the depth of this respect correlates with the type of qualities shown.
1.5.3.1. Con: It can then be very difficult to show respect for somebody who has no features that inspire 'deep admiration'.
1.6. Pro: People have a need to be listened to, heard, and loved. This leads to respect.
1.6.1. Con: Not necessarily; they can listened to, heard and loved but still not be fully respected. This can happen, for example, with parents towards their children: their children are loved, but not necessarily respected.
1.7. Con: Sometimes, conflicts can override respect.
1.7.1. Con: This should never be the case; disagreements can always be conducted with mutual respect, even if the argument grows confrontational.
1.7.1.1. Pro: While true, rhetoric and interpersonal communication skills are, generally speaking, not something that most people have any true, effective, understanding of.
1.8. Pro: When a person feels respected, they are more likely to want to reciprocate.
1.8.1. Pro: This then inevitably leads to relationship success, if both parties reciprocate.
1.8.2. Con: This is untrue; somebody's respect for you does not mean you respect them, and vice versa.
1.8.2.1. Con: Ultimately, this won't lead to relationship success, which is the point of this discussion.
1.9. Con: The definition of respect is not easy to define.
1.9.1. Con: Even if respect is not an easy aspect, most people are able to recognize what is respectful and what is not.
1.9.1.1. Con: It is impossible to claim that something is the root cause of relationship success when it is so fundamentally subjective.
1.9.2. Con: -> See 1.5.2.
1.9.3. Con: -> See 1.5.3.
1.10. Con: There are different factors to consider when looking at different relationships, of different sizes, and types.
1.10.1. Pro: Professional and personal relationships are forged on completely different things, and respect works very differently: professional and personal degrees of respect are as different of the relationships they're associated with.
1.10.2. Con: Even within vastly different types of relationship, respect is a key component for success: in all types of relationship it remains important to found it on respect.