Discussion Title: Is Religious Indoctrination of Children Abuse?

1. Religious indoctrination of children is not abuse.
1.1. Con: Children indoctrinated into religion can be put under severe psychological trauma due to feeling what their parents and communities would describe as sin.
1.1.1. Pro: Religion often seeks to control or admonish natural behaviours such as sexuality.
1.1.2. Pro: Families may also end up shunning children for exploring these perfectly natural behaviours.
1.1.3. Con: Sin as defined by major western religions includes cruelty, dishonesty, stealing, cheating, excessive anger, gluttony, etc. These activities are bad for society and should be discouraged.
1.1.3.1. Con: Abortion, sex before marriage, not respecting one's parents, disobedience to authority, homosexuality, being lustful, envying and finally rejecting Jesus Christ. All of these things are also considered sins as well.
1.1.4. Con: It is simply a faith, not a beating; it is neither violent nor abusive as it does not require physical nor mental abuse.
1.1.4.1. Con: One can suffer mentally solely due to peer pressure, most certainly as a child or adolescent.
1.1.5. Pro: The topic of heaven and hell is not suitable for children. Any parenting that "teaches" and then enforces belief in heaven and hell is abusive. Unless it is possible to prove it as fact, it is abusive to "teach" it as a possibility.
1.2. Pro: Religious indoctrination is a form of cultural protection.
1.2.1. Pro: A majority of cultures are rooted in their religious background; it is almost impossible to divorce one from the other.
1.2.1.1. Con: There are many [thriving cultures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irreligion) including hundreds of millions of people that have abandoned their historical religions. Culture can thrive without religion.
1.2.2. Con: Many cultural and religious practices from the past have have been abandoned or even outlawed as barbaric. It is logical to conclude that not all cultural practices ought to be protected.
1.2.2.1. Pro: The Old Testament also demands that the genitals of male babies are to be mutilated; it should not be taken as an ideal.
1.2.3. Con: Culture is not important if it is harmful or impeding progress.
1.2.3.1. Con: This is a wholly subjective viewpoint; culture may be worth preserving even if its regressive in some areas.
1.3. Pro: Some religions require that parents raise their children in that religion.
1.3.1. Pro: In the New Testament, Paul commands Christians to raise their children in the ["discipline and instruction of the Lord."](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Ephesians+6%3A4&version=ESV)
1.3.1.1. Con: This implicitly makes the needs of a child subservient to the whims of a nebulous and unproven religion, that thrives on indoctrination. As such, it can still be considered abusive.
1.3.1.1.1. Pro: Indoctrinating children from birth into supernatural beliefs subverts their ability to reason and discover the nature of reality.
1.3.1.1.1.1. Con: Some of histories greatest thinkers have held supernatural beliefs.
1.3.1.1.1.1.1. Con: These could just be exceptions. One also has to consider that not so long ago in history not being religious could get one killed \(or being from the 'wrong' religion\).
1.3.1.1.1.2. Pro: Religious indoctrination is different from education about religion. In contemporary use, "to indoctrinate" means to force unquestioning acceptance. Teaching children about religion isn't iteself abusive, but indoctrination means training children away from their natural instinct to think critically, analyze data, and question authority on religious subjects. This is abusive because it artificially limits intellectual development and denies free will in choice of religious affiliation.
1.3.1.1.1.3. Pro: Religious children have a [harder time differentiating reality from fantasy](https://www.bbc.com/news/blogs-echochambers-28537149)
1.3.2. Pro: In the Old Testament, God commands Israel through Moses to [teach His commands to their children](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Deuteronomy+6%3A7&version=ESV).
1.3.2.1. Con: -> See 1.2.2.1.
1.3.3. Con: A religion that did not demand that children be indoctrinated would be likely to expire as a community because rational adults would be unlikely to accept strange beliefs.
1.3.3.1. Con: Religion in and of itself is a strange belief.
1.3.4. Con: That religion requires children of believers to be indoctrinated into the faith says nothing of whether or not it is abusive to do so.
1.3.4.1. Con: Forcing individuals to behave against their free will is, in some sense, abusive.
1.3.4.2. Pro: Whether religious indoctrination is abusive depends upon what harms are caused by teaching it to a child.
1.3.5. Con: Just because a religion demands an activity does not make it non-abusive. For example, in ancient Carthagian religion, gods frequently demanded that parents sacrifice their children. However, by modern standards this is considered abusive.
1.4. Con: It is a man-made construct designed to control society.
1.4.1. Con: So are schools, governments, the military, and a whole host of others; religion is just one of the many.
1.5. Con: -> See 1.3.1.1.1.
1.6. Con: The present system of religious indoctrination is divisive and narrow in its outlook, making it harmful to the individual and also for the society.
1.6.1. Pro: Religious indoctrination by itself is not harmful provided there is space for rational thinking and questioning of scriptures, if need be. If the indoctrination is in the core of all religious teachings such as love, care, compassion and ethics, it has to be welcomed. Regrettably, this is not always the case.
1.7. Pro: Parents pass on to their children the things they believe to be true about the world--their understanding of science, their worldviews, etc. If they also believe in a God, it makes sense for them to pass that along, as well.
1.7.1. Pro: The belief systems of many cannot be easily compartmentalised so that in parents teaching their children one thing cannot easily omit other beliefs that influence their understanding of that one thing.  E.g. a parent teaching their children about road safety is influenced by a parents belief about it's importance \(importance being a moral judgement\).
1.8. Con: People are so brainwashed from birth by religion that they cannot break away from its hold - it affects their thinking/being in every way.
1.8.1. Pro: There are, increasingly, [resources aimed](http://atheistfoundation.org.au/article/overcoming-religious-indoctrination-6-steps-towards-sanity/) at helping people break out of religious indoctrination.
1.8.2. Pro: A number of techniques for brainwashing can be found in [cults and religious communities alike](https://thewisesloth.com/religion/preaching-witnessing-arguing-christianity/15-mind-control-techniques-churches-cults-use/), and they are very hard to break from.
1.8.3. Con: People change religions all the time.
1.8.4. Pro: Religious indoctrination offers no choice. While this may not qualify as abuse, it could be considered impressment. Perhaps there should be a default opt-out clause.
1.9. Con: The government requires that a person must be at least 18 to vote. By setting a minimum age our government believes that anyone younger doesn’t have the knowledge, wisdom, or life experience to pick what’s best. The same should apply to religion.
1.9.1. Pro: The inverse of this argument is used to convince parents to force their children to go to church: that a child is too young to make a decision about their faith, and therefore should be [forced into church](http://christianmomthoughts.com/should-you-force-your-kids-to-go-to-church/) until such an age as they are 'mature enough'. Forcing a child to do anything against their will is inherently abusive.
1.9.1.1. Con: Forcing a child not to play in the middle of a busy street despite their own intentions is not inherently abusive.
1.9.2. Con: Acquiring knowledge, wisdom, experience is a spectrum.  Otherwise, why are children younger than that allowed to drive, consent to sex, make purchases, join clubs, teams, or anything else for that matter?
1.10. Pro: Religion gives children values and morals.
1.10.1. Con: Children can develop values and morals without needing religion.
1.10.2. Pro: Religion suits a purpose in society, rather than a personal endeavor just by the parents. Religion serves as a moral compass for many who lack the intellectual or emotional foresight to avoid committing acts that society deems unfavorable.  It's a rule book with allegories for guidance.
1.10.2.1. Con: It is taken far too seriously, and too literally, to really be painted as no more than a 'guide'.
1.10.3. Con: Religion gives children [the wrong](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morality_and_religion) values and morals.
1.10.3.1. Con: Christianity has the 10 Commandments and the Sermon on the Mount. These teach against killing and stealing, against lying and holding grudges, against condemnation of others. They encourage giving to the poor, loving one's enemies, and the importance of self discipline. Are these 'wrong values?'
1.10.4. Pro: All parenting is religious in essence. All parents necessarily pass on their "religion", that is, beliefs, attitudes, morals, aspirations, and worldviews, all of which are necessary to function in society. To deny these tools to children would be abusive because it would turn them into sociopaths.
1.10.4.1. Con: This implies that children can't acquire these things without religion. Also a religion is not one's attitudes, aspirations, morals and such it is [defined as](https://www.thefreedictionary.com/religious) ''Having or showing belief in and reverence for God or a deity.''. Putting those things into the category of a religion undermines their individual values and overstates what a religion is.
1.10.5. Con: Religion gives people bad reasons to be good when there are plenty of positive reasons available. Helping people is a positive thing to do with your time on this Earth. Helping people because it's a good thing to do is better than helping people only because you think you will be rewarded for it \(heaven\).
1.11. Pro: Religious indoctrination is a reasonable step by parents who are looking out for their child's immortal soul.
1.11.1. Con: The immortal soul is unlikely to exist.
1.11.1.1. Con: This depends hugely on your religious convictions.
1.11.1.2. Pro: There is no substantiated evidence for an immortal soul
1.11.2. Con: Not all religions believe in an immortal soul.  But for those that do, many insist that the path to God\(s\) must be freely chosen. Religious indoctrination may harm a child's immortal soul by interfering with their free acceptance of said religious path. For example, Protestant faith says a person must accept Christ through active seeking \(Mat 7:8\) A child indoctrinated prior to the age of reason may never actively seek God for themself, and miss the required conversion experience. \(Mat 7:21\)