Discussion Title: Is Structural Adjustment The Wrong Policy?

1. This House opposes Structural Adjustment Policies.
1.1. Pro: The illegal market trade increases.
1.1.1. Pro: Unemployment is one of the many damaging consequences of structural adjustment policies which have long term problems of social dissolution for example urban violence in Latin America and ethnic conflicts in other parts of the world, such as Indonesia.
1.1.2. Pro: People trying to acquire money illegally when legal means are not available. For example : illegal drug trade.
1.1.2.1. Pro: This trade brings in hard cash to the country.
1.1.2.2. Con: Focus shifts from growing other important crops as this illegal crop plantation promises more money.
1.2. Pro: Structural adjustment policies cripples the local market.
1.2.1. Pro: Structural adjustment policies advocate to remove trade barriers and encourages giant companies to establish their businesses in developing or underdeveloped countries. This damages the local market because local businesses simply cannot compete with these large private companies.
1.3. Pro: The role of the state is minimized.
1.3.1. Pro: The emphasis on government leadership stems from the problems that arise when donors establish their own strategy implementation agencies within the client countries, bypassing state agencies and therefore undermining the development of state capacity as well as creating a dependency on aid organizations.
1.4. Con: The competition between the public and private brings a greater good.
1.4.1. Pro: In the functions that are privatized, the profit-seeking behavior of new, private sector managers will undoubtedly lead to cost cutting and greater attention to customer satisfaction.
1.4.2. Pro: By the resulting privatization, the public workers will realize that they need to adopt new practices and new equipment, introduce greater flexibility on wages and working conditions, and seek professional guidance. The public sector becomes more innovative
1.4.3. Con: Since the private institutions are managed by the SAP program, they are incentivized with proper foreign investment which makes it difficult for the public sector to compete and sustain.
1.5. Con: Proper allocation of the budgets.
1.5.1. Pro: Government has reallocated its expenditures towards the
social sectors.
1.5.2. Con: These funds are not always directed within the Ministries to those particular sub-sectors and activities that
directly benefit the poor.
1.5.3. Pro: Elimination of state subsidies on consumer items such as foods, fuel, and medications.
1.5.3.1. Con: People are having a problem in achieving basic daily needs.
1.6. Con: It brought changes to push away the economic crisis.
1.6.1. Pro: It made the economies of the developing countries to become more market oriented.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Competition between different firms leads to increased efficiency, as firms do whatever is necessary.
1.6.1.2. Pro: Foreign investment is attracted as word gets out about the new opportunities for earning a profit.
1.6.2. Pro: It creates monopolies.
1.6.2.1. Pro: Once there is a cement plant, there will be no other cement producer, no import of cement. When the plant as such is created, and the company which produces the product is in the public sector, it means de facto that the door is closed to any private initiative, trying to get a foothold and to set up a plant of its own.
1.6.2.2. Pro: The initial impact of the reforms implemented by SAP in the agricultural sector led to a substantial
the increase in the production.
1.6.2.3. Con: The government has no say on the policies implemented which will harshly affect nationalism. Moreover the idea that government has little say on improvising conditions for its own citizens.
1.6.2.4. Con: Since the SAPs are solely concerned with developing the country's economy, they have little concern about the emotional impact they might have on people, therefore exploiting the resources for the greater good.
1.6.3. Con: Inflation distorts the status of poor.
1.6.3.1. Pro: Inflation is a regressive and arbitrary tax, which places a heavy burden on the poor who have no
any other means of countering the associated adverse effect such as interest bearing accounts.
1.6.3.2. Con: When the economy is not running at capacity, meaning there is unused labor or resources, inflation theoretically helps increase production.
1.6.3.3. Con: Inflation also makes it easier on debtors, who repay their loans with money that is less valuable than the money they borrowed. This encourages borrowing and lending, which again increases spending on all levels.
1.6.4. Con: Higher interest rates disincentivize investment.
1.6.4.1. Pro: It worsen poverty as the poor fail to raise credit resources to
participate in the production.
1.6.4.2. Pro: With higher interest rates, interest payments on credit cards and loans are more expensive. Therefore this discourages people from borrowing and saving. People who already have loans will have less disposable income because they spend more on interest payments. Therefore other areas of consumption will fall.
1.7. Pro: Poses a big environmental threat to the borrower.
1.7.1. Pro: Export promotion has increased extractive activities, such as logging and mining, leading to deforestation and mining pollution and the reduction in and degradation of land which can be used for the livelihood of ordinary people.
1.8. Pro: Developing countries suffer from speculative "hot money".
1.8.1. Pro: Hot money is the inflow or outflow of money often in terms of loans and often little more than betting on whether a currency is going to appreciate or depreciate. Poor countries often do not get the time for adaption to utilize the budget or gets destroyed by political corruption hence leaving them in deeper debts. When these country have to pay their debts, they are obliged to collapse their currencies by devaluing them and weakening their banking system.
1.9. Pro: The human resources are exploited.
1.9.1. Pro: Structural adjustment policies give private companies incentives to establish their businesses in developing countries rather than a developed one because they do not have to necessarily protect labour rights such as minimum wage and proper working conditions and hence making them more vulnerable to exploitation.
1.10. Pro: The living standard of poor people will get worse.
1.10.1. Pro: The total trade liberalization, high-interest rates and the full removal of subsidies have threatened both agriculture and domestic industries. Agriculture, especially food production, has also been adversely affected by interest rates and the high prices of inputs. There is a consensus that low commodity prices have not brought the economic returns expected from the promotion of export agriculture.
1.10.2. Pro: The reduced supply of health services through cutting health spending, and declined demand for health services in the sense that reduction in household income left the family with less money to spend on health. As consequences, children nutrition got worse, infectious diseases increased, and infant and maternal mortality rates went high
1.10.3. Pro: It is a recipe for deepening poverty and widening social polarization.
1.11. Pro: Reduced protection of domestic industries causes unemployment.
1.12. Pro: Structural adjustment policies promote free market faith.
1.12.1. Pro: International financial institutions aggressively promote the idea of privatization and commercialization giving power to private companies in terrific terms. For example, The World Bank works closely with WTO to impose strategies led by private companies on poor countries, the kinds of pro corporate policies richer countries have freedom to negotiate but poor ones don't even when it destroys their environment and infringe their rights.
1.13. Con: The reduction of trade barriers will boost transport.
1.13.1. Pro: The policies implemented by SAP programs will be in such a way that they benefit the transport between the countries.
1.13.2. Con: Since there will be loose regulation on the border control, high chances of an illegal action to be pursued.
1.14. Pro: Reduce spending on things like health, education, and development
1.14.1. Pro: Essential investments in health, education, and infrastructure is required before they can compete internationally.