Discussion Title: Is social media helping or harming human relationship?

1. Social Media is Helping Human Relationships.
1.1. Con: If we are relying on technology to improve our relationships, we are bound to harm our human relationships. It's proven that our brains get lazy, and we lose our memory when we know that technology is acting for us.
1.1.1. Con: Social media is very good to start a interaction with someone, especially for those who are scared of "breaking the ice", that otherwise would never happen.
1.2. Pro: Social media allows to connect with more individuals.
1.2.1. Con: The connections made however, are superficial and does not allow for deeper more meaningful bonds with others.
1.2.2. Pro: We can form relationships with anyone in the world now.  These new relationships enrich our lives, that we never would have found without the internet.
1.2.2.1. Con: The immediateness of the creation of new relations has made them disposable to our eyes.
1.3. Pro: Social media allows us to bridge distances and connect with people all over the world.
1.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.2.
1.4. Pro: Social media has expanded our communication potential.
1.4.1. Pro: Difficult or taboo conversations can be made so much easier with the aid of social media. We can be more honest when not confronted with an uncomfortable face-to-face conversation.
1.4.2. Pro: -> See 1.2.2.
1.4.3. Pro: Social media allows more communication. Used correctly, this helps human relationships.
1.4.4. Pro: Social media is brilliant for introverts, who can gain confidence in communication through social media.
1.4.4.1. Con: Social media can also encourage introverts to become more withdrawn, making it more challenging for them to forge real human connections.
1.4.5. Con: Humans already have everything we need to communicate without social media. We have a mouths, ears, eyes, faces and bodies to communicate perfectly.
1.4.5.1. Con: But still, a mother can't show a father in the army a video of their son giving its first steps without social media.
1.5. Con: Social media [is shown](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-42705881) to induce depression in individuals.
1.5.1. Pro: Social media can be used as a window into someone's life; yet, no-one posts about an average day. All you see is a highlight reel of a person's life. This inevitably causes others to feel inferior.
1.6. Con: Our face to face relationships suffer because of social media.
1.6.1. Pro: We're addicted to social media. It's like tasting sugar, and losing your taste for natural fruit. We get a rush from the heighten "social" interaction, and lose interest in real social relationships.
1.6.2. Con: You're not using social media right, if your real-life relationships suffer because of your online interactions.
1.6.3. Pro: Kids and teenagers are missing out on important biological and social cues, because the majority of interaction they have is now digitized.
1.6.4. Pro: Although social media allows us to connect with a multitude of people, excessive use of social media can negatively impact real life relationships by eliminating the need and therefore development of face to face social skills.
1.6.5. Pro: Conversation in friendships/relationships is reduced as information which would usually be shared in conversation is available on social media
1.6.6. Pro: Social media is affecting our ability to read each others body language which in turn affects our human relationships.
1.7. Pro: It's not that social media is "bad"; people are just not using it as a product, they're being "consumed" by it. Even Facebook admitted that [Social Media CAN be harmful](https://newsroom.fb.com/news/2017/12/hard-questions-is-spending-time-on-social-media-bad-for-us/), but it depends on HOW people use it.
1.7.1. Con: An important question is if people are able to use it correctly. Studies show there are many negative effects of [social media](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/13/health/teenagers-drugs-smartphones.html). We exist in a world where the easy way can be hard to resist, and why spend time on a relationship while one can just send a snapchat, swipe right on tinder, or like a facebook post -- it makes human commitments less of a commitment.
1.8. Con: Our online relationships are owned by corporations, and therefore harming our human relationships
1.9. Con: Social media is definitely a reason why so many people are antisocial and/or depressed. Cyber bullying is the main form of bullying now and it make kids feel too afraid to interact with people if they get attacked online. [fundforcivility.org](http://fundforcivility.org/cyberbullying-effects/)
1.9.1. Con: Bullying is also present at schools but this doesn't mean schools are bad, antisocial people have always existed but they were mostly ignored.
1.10. Pro: Social media enriches human relationships.
1.10.1. Pro: Recording and mapping online conversations, social media interactions, photographs, videos and memories - all add important sentiment to our human relationships.
1.10.2. Con: Social media enriches *the network* of relationships, at the expense of the individual relationships.
1.10.2.1. Con: Individual relationships can spark from the network of connections made on social media.
1.10.3. Pro: Social media allows people to have more compassion for others.
1.10.3.1. Pro: [Social media](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/inspired-life/wp/2015/02/24/the-digital-world-is-warmer-than-you-think-heres-how-social-media-builds-empathy/?utm_term=.f62734d2cec6) brings social awareness to issues people may not otherwise know existed, sparking more compassion, or empathy.
1.10.3.2. Con: Many people are more judgmental and cruel behind a screen than they would otherwise be to your face. Typing to a picture and a name does not have the same effect as standing face to face.