Discussion Title: Is "The Last Jedi" one of the weakest Star Wars movies so far?

1. "The Last Jedi" is one of the weakest Star Wars movies so far.
1.1. Con: The movie delves much deeper into the philosophical side of the Force than the rest of the Star Wars movies.
1.1.1. Pro: The Last Jedi has clearer central themes than most other Star Wars films: namely the themes of perseverance in the midst of despair \(hope\), and that nothing is inevitable \(surprise\).
1.1.2. Pro: The Last Jedi focused on how Force users walk the blade-thin line between Light and Dark - the Dark and the Light being a Whole.
1.1.3. Con: The movie broke expectations of what the force can do.
1.1.3.1. Pro: Leia being able to magically move back to the spacecraft had a deus-ex-machina touch to it.
1.1.3.1.1. Con: The Force works in mysterious ways.
1.1.3.1.1.1. Con: There is no basis for being in space and not dying by just having a connection to the force.
1.1.3.1.1.1.1. Con: This has been shown in Clone Wars and Rebels before. There is even an explanation, that you could survive for a few seconds \(around 30 or 40?\) without the force. Having the force may increase this time significantly.
1.1.3.1.1.2. Pro: Leia always had access to Force powers, and used them as the Force willed it.
1.1.3.1.1.3. Pro: Leia's use of the Force would only be a contrived plot device if it had no basis, that basis is explained towards the end when we all learn \(especially Poe\) that not being the center of attention is not a bad thing.
1.1.3.1.2. Con: While it may have seemed sudden in the film, Leia's use of the Force has been more pronounced in the comics. Decades would have that passed from Ep VIII to The Last Jedi, during which time Leia most likely would have explored the perks of her Skywalker bloodline, such as developing Force powers in curato salvo. Sensing that the hull would be destroyed, Leia could have entered into a state of morichro allowing her to remain alive even in the inhospitable conditions of space.
1.1.3.1.3. Pro: Leaving Leia to die in space would have been a natural conclusion to her character arc; having died in battle against the betrayals of her son.
1.1.3.1.3.1. Pro: This would have been satisfactory and very plausible, given the allusions from the movie trailers.
1.1.3.1.3.1.1. Con: The movie trailer shouldn't decide, if something is plausible in the actual movie or not. The trailer is meant to get people excited and into the theatre, the trailer is not canon.
1.1.3.1.3.2. Con: Although plausible - just as plausible was her ability to wield the Force as she did, thus creating a new arc and iteration, one in which our knowledge of the Force has now grown right along with the other characters in the movie \(Poe is a good example\). We are shown hand in hand with Poe what it truly means to be a rebel, to be wise, and to trust in those around us, especially the Force.
1.1.3.1.4. Con: Let's never forget Leia is indeed Anakin's daughter as she is Luke's sister. The force is strong in this woman.
1.1.3.1.4.1. Con: Using genealogy to explain Leia’s sudden, incomprehensible strength in the Force runs directly counter to the narrative in this film that one's bloodline does not affect this. In pre-Disney Star Wars, one was expected only to have Force powers if they were hereditarily passed down from a Force-using parent, or if they were conceived intentionally through the Force itself. Rey’s parentage being labeled unimportant \(also, the Force-using broom boy at the end of TLJ\) runs counter to this precedent.
1.1.3.1.4.2. Pro: The extent to which the Force can affect reality is being stretched with The Last Jedi - and it is also being explained. The extent and power level of Leia's connection with the Force is what was unknown until that point. Up until then - others acted and she held back. In that moment, she reached out to the Force and acted.
1.1.3.1.4.2.1. Pro: As far as what can be 'done', remember Yoda's words: "Luminous beings are we…not this crude matter.” Crude matter can be protected, flown, projected.
1.1.3.1.4.3. Pro: Anakin Skywalker was a being created by the force, making him and his bloodline uniquely connected to it.
1.1.3.1.4.3.1. Pro: In Ep.I Shmi, Anakin's mother tells Qui Gon Jinn that there was no father involved in Anakin's birth, leading Qui Gon to suspect that Anakin was in fact made by the midichlorians, i.e. from the Force.
1.1.3.1.4.3.2. Con: There is an implication that Darth Plagueis has created Anakin - not necessarily the Force per se.
1.1.3.1.4.3.2.1. Con: While not canon, the closest answer to [Anakin's heritage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6szR6g-SF_E) suggests that the Force created him as a response to Darth Plagueis tampering with the Force.
1.1.3.1.5. Pro: It has never been implied before that anyone in the Star Wars universe can survive large-scale explosions, at -270 degrees \(the temperature in space\) and in vacuum.
1.1.3.1.5.1. Con: Kanan Jarrus \(Rebels\) and Plo Koon \(The Clone Wars\) survive in the vacuum of space for a similar long time as Leia.
1.1.3.1.5.1.1. Con: Both Jarrus and Koon were trained Jedi, whereas Leia had never received any training of this kind.
1.1.3.1.5.1.1.1. Con: Lei had 30 years in which to either receive formal training or explore the use of the force on her own.
1.1.3.1.5.1.1.2. Con: During an [interview with Rian Johnson](https://www.inverse.com/article/39603-star-wars-last-jedi-leia-space-force-powers-rian-johnson), he equates her response and use of the force to instinct, much like an adrenaline rush wherein a person is able to perform impossible physical acts to save a life under extreme duress. In her case - a midichlorian rush.
1.1.3.1.5.1.1.3. Con: Leia received [training](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r5hhnEOGsRU) from Luke in the Star Wars novel Aftermath.
1.1.3.1.6. Pro: The cinematography of this scene was awkward an uninteresting; merely showing Leia slowly drifting back into the ship.
1.1.3.1.6.1. Con: While the cinematography of that particular scene was poor, the plot event it enacts is fitting and gave Leia's character a moment of risk and triumph.
1.1.3.2. Pro: The ability to project oneself across space like Skywalker did was new to the Star Wars movies. If this would have always been possible, there would have been no reason to not intervene earlier for him.
1.1.3.2.1. Con: Luke may have never considered this use of the force before or deemed it necessary. This can explain why force projection was never on display before.
1.1.3.2.2. Con: It seems that Force projection is something which is first created by Snoke, as he claims to have been the one who connected Rey with Kylo Ren. As he is presented as an ancient being who's lived through the rise and fall of empires, it makes sense that he discovered this when others didn't.
1.1.3.2.2.1. Pro: That Luke is then able to do this too makes sense given he's often considered the most powerful Jedi in Star Wars, and given his intense study of the Jedi as well as the Force after the fall of the Empire.
1.1.3.2.3. Con: Many ways in which the force could be used are presumably unknown; either because they are still to be discovered or because knowledge was lost in the downfall of The Republic.
1.1.3.2.3.1. Pro: Obi-Wan Kenobi was one of the very first and still stands as one of the very few Jedi who've been able to become one with the force. This is despite the fact that the Jedi had existed for thousands of generations before Kenobi was even born.
1.1.3.2.4. Con: Luke is one of the most powerful Force users of all time, so him eventually learning this ability is no surprise but there are good reasons why it took so long for him to learn how to use it.
1.1.3.2.4.1. Pro: Luke's extended time on Ahch-To might have given him powers we haven't seen before. The island is, after all, home to the first Jedi temple, the Jedi scriptures, and probably a place of enormous significance in that context.
1.1.3.2.4.2. Pro: Luke had been cut off from the Force for a long time, preventing him from the opportunity to discover and use this power.
1.1.3.2.5. Con: Luke eventually dies from the exhaustion after using this ability which clearly shows that the ability requires a lot of effort and cannot be used with ease.
1.1.3.3. Con: Almost every movie had new ideas about what a force user can do.
1.1.3.3.1. Pro: In "A New Hope" it is new to control a persons mind \(Obi-Wan\), to be guided by the force to succeed \(Luke\) and to choke somebody \(Darth Vader\).
1.1.3.3.2. Pro: In "The Empire Strikes Back" it is new to be able to move around objects \(Vader\), to jump very high \(Luke\), and to communicate with each other through the force \(Luke & Leia; Luke & Vader\).
1.1.3.3.3. Pro: In "Return of the Jedi" it is new to be able to create lightning \(The Emperor\).
1.1.3.3.4. Pro: In "The Phantom Menace" it is new to do force push \(Obi-Wan\).
1.1.3.3.5. Pro: In "Attack of the Clones" it is new to do lightning absorb \(Yoda\).
1.1.3.3.6. Pro: In "Revenge of the Sith" it is new to counter force lightning with the lightsaber \(Mace Windu\).
1.1.3.3.6.1. Con: The use of a lightsaber is not a Force power.
1.1.3.3.7. Pro: In "Rogue One" it is new to see through the force \(Chirrut Imwe\).
1.1.3.3.7.1. Con: The force is already used to see in the very first Star Wars movie, A New Hope. Luke Skywalker practices with a lightsaber while wearing a training helmet with the blast shield down. “With the blast shield down I can’t even see!” - Luke “Feel the Force flowing through you!” - Obi-Wan
1.1.3.3.8. Pro: In "The Force Awakens" it's new to paralyse people and objects, even blaster shots \(Kylo Ren\).
1.1.3.3.9. Pro: That each new Star Wars movie adds new aspects of the force is exciting and should be considered a positive feature of the film.
1.1.3.4. Pro: Snokes Force Link between Kylon Ren \(Ben Solo\) and Rey is also unprecedented, especially to the degree of real time interaction and timing.
1.1.3.5. Con: There has been no clear standard for what the force allows its users to do, what are the limits to it, and how much effort it requires to master. Any expectations as to what the force does are subjective.
1.1.3.6. Pro: More accurately, the Force was presented as a revolution rather than an evolution. From Leia resurrecting her frozen corpse in deep space, to Luke astrally projecting across galaxies, to Yoda's ghost destructively affecting the environment, it was too expansive for one movie and became detrimental to one's suspension of disbelief.
1.1.3.7. Con: The ideas about what The Force can do have been largely generated in games \(tabletop, computer\) rather than in the \(original\) movies themselves. To this end, The Force became spellcasting and actions one can do in game, like a Force Push, rather than being a way to interact with the energy that "surrounds all living things". In that way The Last Jedi did much to rehabilitate The Force away from being actions and spells and back into being mystical.
1.1.4. Pro: The director took a huge risk in making this a think piece and not just another movie we can shelve away as another Star Wars entry. It will take time for fans to come to grips with the depth.
1.1.4.1. Pro: Case in point: It is unclear how Rey would already know. Yoda to Luke: "Read them, did you? Page turners, were they?". The Force is alive, and not hidden away in a book. The books represent a weakness we have as humans/Jedi in that we must "hold" knowledge somehow or it isn't real. At least some were spared.
1.1.5. Con: The movie introduced a inflation of the force's power as characters persistently have to one-up each other in terms of what they can do. As a result, Kylo Ren seems stronger than Luke - and Rey seems to be even more powerful than that.
1.1.6. Pro: Yoda tells Luke that Rey has learned all she needed "Without" the need for the Jedi books or the type of formal training a temple would afford. This could be seen as a main thrust of the movie; the Force is something much more than what is understood - even by the Jedi as they exist at the time. It can Speak to the intended sans temple and books.
1.1.6.1. Con: Rey took the books with her. You can see them in a drawer on the Falcon when Finn takes a blanket out for Rose. Yoda's comment about the books now comes off a joke–she HAS the books…
1.1.6.1.1. Con: Rey has the books now and with it centuries of knowledge that can help her guide herself to becoming a Jedi master. All Jedi were only able to become masters after a master taught them. Rey now has the books where masters would be telling her what to do. Just because Rey took the books means nothing, just that she wants to put everything back like it used to be.
1.1.6.1.2. Con: The implication is that Rey is so in tune with the Force - that without reading them - which she has yet to do, she knows all she needs to know. The viewers are left to define that for themselves.
1.1.6.1.3. Con: Yoda made fun of the books themselves when talking to Luke: "Page turners, they were, hmmmm?"
1.1.7. Pro: The Last Jedi portrays the Force in a much more nuanced way than previous Star Wars movies.
1.1.7.1. Pro: All of the earlier Star Wars movies portray the Force as a simple dichotomy of a clear Light side and a clear Dark side. This is a less compelling portrayal than looking at the Force as a complex thing that binds together the universe, as was done in The Last Jedi.
1.1.7.1.1. Pro: In real life, what is good and what is evil is not simple and clear cut, but instead complex and often difficult make out. That the Force isn't oversimplified either makes it more relatable and more compelling.
1.1.7.1.2. Pro: Luke in The Last Jedi even references the narrow and dogmatic view on the Force, that the Jedi Order had in the past. Believing that the Force was simply made up of a Light side of which the Jedi belong to, and a Dark side of which the Sith belong to.
1.1.8. Pro: The movies explanation of the Force transitions from the original trilogy's view of the Force as mystical and almost mythical to the prequel trilogy's view of the Force from a very technical view point\(i.e. Midichlorians\) to The Last Jedi's in-depth philosophical view of the Force as more than the previous understandings of what it is.
1.1.8.1. Con: Rather than being entirely separate to the original trilogy's depiction of the force, it simply extends from it. It provides logical extensions, extrapolations and interpretations of what can be found in other works from the Star Wars universe.
1.1.9. Con: The Force is not philosophical in this movie, it's just space magic. In fact, it goes out of its way to both tell and show us that the philosophy is irrelevant; the original Jedi texts are destroyed because Rey "already knows" what they have to teach.
1.1.9.1. Con: As seen later in the movie, Rey stole the books and that's what Yoda seems to mean. He's actually protecting the books by burning the library since Luke will not try to destroy them anymore.
1.1.10. Con: The message of this movie is to have one find one's own balance in the Force. It is central to Kylo Ren as a character as he is shown struggling to find his place. This is similar to the stories of Anakin and Luke throughout the Saga. Unfortunately, this message isn't highlighted enough. Even worse, this concept has already been explored in some of the best written pieces of SW media. KOTOR, The Mortis arc, Dawn of the Jedi, etc. We even have a character who embodies this message, Darth Revan.
1.1.11. Con: This movie is divisive precisely because it is generally waxing philosophical. It has been co-opted by an intellectual elite that normal people neither have the time nor patience for, let alone the gumption to digest as entertaining.
1.1.11.1. Con: Even if it was too complicated for the public to understand, which it is not, many other very complicated movies or at least movies with parts that are very complex can still be blockbusters.
1.1.11.2. Con: Star Wars 1977 and the movies that followed were created by people who were intellectual and elite.
1.1.11.3. Con: "The Force" is the defining characteristic of the Star Wars series and in an innately philosophical concept. To enjoy Star Wars over, for example, Star Trek is to have enjoyed a movie with a philosophical core to it more than one without. To remove the philosophy from Star Wars is to stop making Star Wars films.
1.1.11.4. Con: The movie [Intersellar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interstellar_\(film\)) is a intellectual work and took over $650m at the box office suggesting that a broad base of movie goers \(or "normal people"\) are interested in movies which speak on an intelligent level.
1.2. Pro: The Last Jedi suffers from how it utilizes humor.
1.2.1. Pro: Many of the plot points and jokes were very distracting because they so heavily reference the present day; something that previous Star Wars movies had done sparingly.
1.2.1.1. Pro: Many of the 'gags' in The Last Jedi were uncomfortably modern in their references; i.e. the "please hold" scene that undercuts the experience of being immersed in a fictional universe.
1.2.1.1.1. Pro: It has become en vogue to have supposedly self-aware, self-effacing characters because of the Marvel/DC superhero-type series. Those comic book series try to convince us that they are a part of our own universe. It does not belong in Star Wars, originating a long time ago in a galaxy far far away. The please hold/your mother scene was unbearable.
1.2.1.1.2. Pro: The "please hold" scene raises many curious questions about when the character would have experienced a call centre environment which breaks the narrative conceit.
1.2.1.2. Con: Those seem like very broad themes that would be applicable in any universe and to those characters in order to apply meaning and a personal touch to their motivations. The whole point is that the Star Wars universe is a fantasy setting that isn't so different from our own; that's the fun of it.
1.2.2. Pro: The use of excessively cute aliens \('porgs' primarily\) seemed like it overtly pandered to the audience \(and perhaps merchandising\).
1.2.2.1. Pro: The fact that Porgs didn't contribute to the plot simply exposes the fact that they are in the film to sell toys and as a highly, highly ineffective form of comic relief.
1.2.2.1.1. Con: Rather than being ineffective comic relief Porgs are dressing and world building. They are not intended to be funny.
1.2.2.2. Con: As illustrated by the rise in toys for adults such as [Nightmare on Elm Street bobbleheads](https://www.popinabox.co.uk/merch-action-figures/nightmare-on-elm-street-freddy-krueger-pop-vinyl-figure/10954843.html?affil=thggpsad&switchcurrency=GBP&shippingcountry=GB&thg_ppc_campaign=71700000023286202&gclid=Cj0KCQiAyszSBRDJARIsAHAqQ4o35SvMF3x4yIXPU15Gkje9EWIGwQZgTT30VO_fYIJyDOJH0cdmR3gaAhUHEALw_wcB&gclsrc=aw.ds), creatives do not need to add "cute" creatures for a movie to have merchandise opportunities.
1.2.2.3. Con: The Porgs did not affect the plot in any major ways, making them much more tolerable than Gungans or Ewoks
1.2.2.4. Con: They were tastefully used and were precisely in keeping with Star Wars tradition of having a small contingency of 'cute' creatures \(ewoks, etc.\) to balance out its majority of ugly creatures.
1.2.2.5. Con: Why is trying to make a movie enjoyable for the audience a negative thing? Just because it broke from the same old tropes that other Star Wars movies used, and used humour to undercut the more serious aspects of the plot doesn't make it a bad movie, in fact I think it makes it better.
1.2.2.6. Con: The Porgs can be seen as useless and pointless creatures meant only to sell toys to children. However, we've learned that the island they were filming on was infested with puffins and the VFX team decided it was too time-consuming to digitally edit them all out and thus decided to edit them all into Porgs.
1.2.2.6.1. Pro: This is a reality of filmmaking. They made the best of their setting.
1.2.3. Pro: The use of humour was excessive, did not fit with the tone of the earlier movies, and undercut the drama of many scenes.
1.2.3.1. Pro: In a bizarre scene, Luke milks a giraffe/manatee hybrid. The giranatee appears to take pleasure from this, moaning as it looks lovingly towards Rey. Rey's response, rightly, is to avert her eyes from the cringe before her.
1.2.3.2. Con: Star Wars always used humor to flesh out major characters and important plot lines.
1.2.3.2.1. Pro: Think back - Yoda on his Death Bed cracking jokes: “When nine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not.”
1.2.3.2.1.1. Con: The difference being that was a good joke that added charm to the character.
1.2.3.2.2. Pro: When Luke, Han and Chewbacca infiltrate the Death Star in A New Hope to free Leia, the heroism and drama of the scene are overshadowed by Han's humorous and absurd banter with the guards over the intercom.
1.2.3.3. Pro: Humor was traditionally restricted to certain sidekick-characters, thus avoiding flat and dry dialogues. In contrast to that, The Last Jedi got this wrong, just like Episode I did with the introduction of Jar Jar Binks.
1.2.3.3.1. Con: Direct humorous statements were usually said by sidekicks, but several major characters were involved in sarcastic dialogue exchanges or were involved in ironic moments that made one chuckle. However "I've got a bad feeling about this" was about the most a headliner character ever said that was a 'comedic' line.
1.2.3.3.1.1. Con: The headliner characters constantly crack jokes. "You came in that thing? You’re braver than I thought.", spoken by Leia in [EP.IV](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lXrBZnOIw7Q). There are many other funny lines, such as "You were right about one thing, Master... The negotiations were short", spoken by Obi-Wan in [EP.I](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIQUrrbNW_Q), and "We would be honored if you would join us" spoken by Darth Vader in [EP.V](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEgspwgOzfY). All of these are main characters.
1.2.3.3.2. Con: The Star Wars Roleplaying Game book of 1988 underlines the importance of verbal interplay and humour between the main characters as an important part of the Star Wars mood which should be included in your adventures. The term "banter" was used then \(a term which has a different meaning now\) but humour has always been something the main characters do in Star Wars.
1.2.3.4. Con: Even the original trilogy had 'plushie' aliens used excessively in the form of the Ewoks. However unlike the original trilogy, the Porgs in The Last Jedi do not have any actual baring on the plot.
1.2.3.4.1. Con: -> See 1.2.2.1.
1.2.3.4.2. Pro: Porgs make the movie more enjoyable for younger audience-members while not featuring heavily enough to disturb the plot significantly.
1.2.3.4.2.1. Pro: While the Porgs may seem unnecessary to adults watching the film, kids watching The Last Jedi are most likely loving the part that the Porgs play as funny and cute animals.
1.2.3.4.2.2. Pro: In both the Return Of The Jedi and in The Phantom Menace, the comic relief; Ewoks and Jar-Jar respectively, that were added primarily for the enjoyment of children, had a significant impact on the plot, which made the movies overall less compelling.
1.2.3.4.2.2.1. Pro: In Return Of The Jedi, the Ewoks managed to cause heavy casualties upon the technologically very advanced Empire, only using tribal tools and methods.
1.2.3.4.2.2.1.1. Pro: There is a very obvious relationship with the native defense of Vietnam by the North Vietnamese and the Ewoks. Both used knowledge of the territory and suitability of their fighting techniques to that terrain to beat a more technologically advanced enemy.
1.2.3.4.2.2.1.1.1. Pro: The story which would become the Battle of Endor was conceived in the mid 1970s as the war in Vietnam was coming to a close.
1.2.3.4.2.2.2. Pro: In The Phantom Menace, Jar-Jar Binks managed to accidentally cause major damage on the droid army in the battle against the Separatists, primarily through being clumsy.
1.2.3.4.2.2.3. Con: The Ewoks in Return of the Jedi are not comic. There are very few jokes around Ewoks and other than their physical appearance there is nothing to suggest they are cute, or should be amusing.
1.2.3.5. Con: The movie did well to use humor as a tool to alleviate the pace and the emotional intensity of the film.
1.2.3.5.1. Pro: The humor was used as a way to break the massive tension when the intensity had been high for a long time. This allowed the film to be able to build tension again without wearing out the audience.
1.2.3.5.1.1. Con: They overuse this humor and place it at points where it generally hurts the overall tone of the moment and in one case making a character weaker overall rather than breaking tension that had been building up. The use of humor destroys the tension in a way that denies the viewer catharsis. It is fundamental rule of writing that one not deny the viewer catharsis and should not be broken unless it is to make a satirical comment or statement a la "One Punch Man."
1.2.3.5.2. Pro: The purpose of this humor was never to get a bunch of laughter from the audience which makes the fact that the jokes didn't land very often to be more acceptable.
1.2.3.5.3. Con: There are few things more cringe worthy and immersion breaking than jokes that don't meet their mark. The Last Jedi had arguably a higher concentration of such jokes than any Star Wars movie.
1.2.3.6. Con: There was just as much humor in The Force Awakens. And annoying, "funny" creatures are a staple of Star Wars movies \(Jawas, Ugnaughts, Ewoks, Jar Jar, Dexter Jettster, even some droids\).
1.2.3.6.1. Con: In terms of annoying "funny" characters/ creatures, Jar Jar is the only good example you have listed here as the rest of the creatures you have listed here were not overtly annoying. Dexter isn't even remotely annoying. Even Jar Jar became less annoying because fans hated the character so much.
1.2.3.7. Con: -> See 1.2.2.6.
1.2.3.8. Con: The Darkhorse comics that reference Luke's training from Yoda: “Mysterious are the ways of the Force.”, to which Luke says, “Did you just make me stand on my head for two hours because I was annoying you?” - Yoda: “Very mysterious.”
1.2.3.8.1. Con: Not one of the movies, and taken out of context, it is impossible to say if this exchange undercuts the tone of that particular comic.
1.2.3.9. Con: Humor is an essential part of a believable character, and the humor in The Last Jedi serves to remind us that these are real people facing real problems, and dealing with them like any other person.
1.2.3.9.1. Con: But not when the same humor enters on situations supposed to be taken seriously \(the first minutes of The Last Jedi consisting of a single Resistance spaceship doing the first Star Wars assault that got started by a prank call on an Imperial Flagship explains my point by itself\).
1.2.3.9.2. Con: Humour is not an essential part of a believable character, or Oskar Schindler or Colonel Kurtz would not be believable characters. Many people don't crack jokes when facing the problems of their lives.
1.2.3.9.2.1. Con: Kurtz reference to a ban on writing obscenities on missiles shows that as a character he understands irony. To suggest he is without humour is not correct.  He understands it but does not deploy it.
1.2.3.9.2.1.1. Con: The claim is not that Kurtz is without humour, but that humour is not an essential aspect in making him a believable character.
1.2.3.10. Pro: Chewie's scene with the roasted Porg's was stretched out to the point of being farcical - something that clashes with the tone of The Last Jedi and recalls the cringe comedy of the prequels.
1.2.3.11. Con: The risk of including any humour in a movie is that some jokes will land \(i.e. Yoda's or Rey's lines\) and others will not depending on the audience.
1.2.3.11.1. Con: To an extent, but it depends more on the quality and confidence of the writing than the audience. The best comedians know what is funny to general audiences, and what is less funny, or niche.
1.2.3.12. Pro: Humour can be effectively used, such as in The Force Awakens, when used sparingly as a means to release tension. In The Last Jedi, the constant use of humour made it hard to maintain a serious tone even when it was needed.
1.2.3.12.1. Pro: Case in point is the first meeting of Rey and Luke Skywalker: what is a climatic, meaningful scene at the end of The Force Awakens quickly turns into slapstick in The Last Jedi when Luke throws the light saber over his shoulder and walks out on Rey.
1.2.3.12.1.1. Con: That choice however quickly establishes the character progression of Luke into a jaded cynic much more effectively than extended dialogue would.
1.3. Pro: The movie goes too far in avoiding a heroic theme and is unfun.
1.3.1. Con: Looking at [how critics reacted to the movie](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/star_wars_the_last_jedi/), it still provided a fun experience to many viewers.
1.3.2. Pro: Heroes need to overcome personal challenges to become heroes. Luke avoids conflict and "projects" himself \(still avoiding conflict\) and then dies.
1.3.2.1. Con: Luke was, in many regards, already a hero and as such did not need to overcome any challenges like that to prove himself. We are instead given a story about the personal growth of Luke as a human and his overcoming the burden of past experiences.
1.3.2.2. Con: A conflict in a history is not only a physical combat, but an obstacle for the balance of the character "wants" and "needs". The same way that Luke become a Jedi in ROTJ by throwing off his lightsaber and refusing to kill his own father \(against Obi-Wan's advice and the Emperor's plans\), he deciding to trick Kylo Ren in letting the Resistance escape showed he was wiser, and still commited to a non-violent approach to conflicts. It fitted and respected the characters essence.
1.3.2.3. Con: Luke is not avoiding conflict, his actions make the dark side weaker. If he fights, the force makes the dark side stronger to balance the two.
1.3.2.4. Con: Although Luke dies, his ascension to a Force Ghost does not rule out his continued participation in the story or the conclusion of his heroic path.
1.3.3. Pro: The ending with the stable boys vicariously imagining themselves as Jedi heroes could've been amazing at the end of a different movie. However, coming at the end of a film where Luke wasn't portrayed as a heroic or inspiring at all, but rather as a nihilistic failure who just wanted to die, it feels like a big slap in the face to the audience.
1.3.3.1. Con: The stable boy imagines what it is like to be a hero because he is young and innocent. Luke, Ben and Yoda all know what it is like to be a hero. Actually being the hero and seeing your best efforts resisted by the dark side of the force lead you to understand the inevitable balance of the force.
1.4. Pro: The vastly increased cast of characters, and the need to give each of them an arc, lead to numerous subplots that bloated the film's runtime and had little effect on the plot.
1.4.1. Pro: Several of the characters introduced in The Last Jedi had plots that largely fell flat.
1.4.1.1. Pro: The sacrifice of Admiral Holdo felt insignificant as the character received next to no development.
1.4.1.2. Pro: Rose's devotion to Finn feels insignificant as the character was largely underdeveloped in The Last Jedi.
1.4.1.3. Pro: DJ's betrayal isn't heart-wrenching because of his shallow character build and limited screen time. To introduce such a powerful theme from a character we haven't met before is indicative of the films weak storytelling. It should have come from a character who was already introduced or developed from The Force Awakens.
1.4.1.3.1. Con: DJs betrayal is a counterpoint to the trust that the characters in the narrative place in neutral characters which is rewarded with that character's conversion to "good". Obi-Wan and Luke trust Han and Han comes to join their fight. Han trusts Lando and Lando comes from join his fight. Finn and Rose trust DJ and he betrays them. This continues The Last Jedi's theme of "this is not going to turn out like you think" and in that way it is strong storytelling.
1.4.2. Con: Scrabbling around and trying to get away in pointless side quests is what happens in real life. This could be seen as a reboot to start many new story arcs.
1.4.2.1. Con: If that "side quest" would have been enjoyable in any way, the movie would have been better for it. However, most people, even critics who praised the movie, agree that the whole casino plotline was unnecessary and hurt the pacing of the movie.
1.4.3. Con: While the movie was unfocused, all the side arcs had clear impact on the main conflict and were connected to it. Some had smaller payoffs \(Poe vs Holdo, Finn & Rose's adventure\), but it doesn't invalidate them.
1.4.4. Pro: For this reason, the movie simultaneously comes across as too long, yet also rushed.
1.4.5. Pro: Finn and Rose's visit to the Casino planet was ultimately useless and contributed nothing to the plot.
1.4.5.1. Con: If the only point of the TLJ was to inform the viewer of events in a somewhat linear fashion, then yes. If the intent is to creatively suggest to the viewer that there is message that can tie all this together and that message is Trust, Hope, & Love - then we can fit that in nicely. Recall Rose's comment to Fin: "I did it because I love you, you big dummy" - and yes, maybe that's why we fight, for each other. To that end, the viewer is treated to several story arcs that help cement that message.
1.4.5.1.1. Con: A generic positive message do not justify an over bloated movie with more than two hours and half of duration. Other Star Wars movies displayed messages of resilience and persistence and they used subplots in a much more seamlessly way for the narrative. Rogue One displayed a much more interesting message in the end and did not force the viewer to watch dispensable subplots.
1.4.5.1.1.1. Con: The parent claim gave en example of how the subplots could be understood as part of a whole, simply. A deeper truth is that it is extremely complex, and for many, that is why it fails. Redemption comes to mind as a major point. Flawed human psyche and the pull of Light and Dark oftentimes within those that purport one side or the other exclusively - again, like the Ying/Yang.
1.4.5.2. Con: Finn & Rose's subplot exists to change Finn from a character wanting to run and have no part of the war into a hero willing to sacrifice his life for a cause. Rose represents the argument of taking action, while DJ shows the negatives of looking out for yourself.
1.4.5.2.1. Pro: When Rose appears, he is trying to run, then she shows him what true commitment looks like, and what a deep meaning to one's action is: Finn just wants to get away and doesn't know why, but Rose wants to fight because that's the way to make things better for the people she loves.
1.4.6. Pro: Finn, Rose, and Poe's attack run on the land-cannon was ultimately useless.
1.4.6.1. Con: It was but because the plan failed it does not mean that the plot failed. The last ditch attack to save the good guys is the trope we saw at the end of Star Wars 1977. In this the hopelessness of the situation is underlined by taking that trope and subverting it. In that way the subplot is justified even if the attack fails.
1.4.7. Pro: Captain Phasma's character had almost nothing to do in The Last Jedi and was summarily dispatched.
1.4.7.1. Pro: Captain Phasma also becomes [Bond villain-esque](http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/BondVillainStupidity) this time round. Rather than killing Finn quickly and efficiently, she draws out his execution for so long that he escapes and ultimately kills her.
1.4.7.2. Pro: This marks another chapter in Captain Phasma's badly developed story line: how she escaped the trash compactor into which Finn drops her at the end of The Force Awakens and the exploding Starkiller Base remains hard to imagine.
1.4.7.3. Con: Captain Phasma's lack of arc fits perfect in line with other badass but short-shifted Star Wars villains such as Darth Maul, Boba & Jango Fett, and General Grievous.
1.4.7.3.1. Con: Boba Fett plays a role in several of the old movies, moves the story line along at several points, and has his background and upbringing explained in Attack of the Clones.
1.4.7.3.2. Con: Jango Fett, at the very least, plays an integral part for the prequel's story where he serves as the blueprint for the Galactic Republic's army of clones. In addition, he is part of several battles, and his assassination attempts of Padme and their investigation form part of the movies' plot.
1.4.7.3.3. Con: Darth Maul is the main antagonist in The Phantom Menace and even kills Qui-Gon, one of the main protagonists.
1.4.7.3.3.1. Pro: Darth Maul was later brought back for both the Clone Wars animated series and the Rebels animated series, so wasn't actually killed off, only appeared to die.
1.4.7.3.3.2. Con: Actually, the trade federation should be considered the main antagonist of The Phantom Menace as it is they who are the main opposing force to the protagonists.
1.4.7.3.4. Con: General Grievous is a prominent feature throughout the TV-series The Clone Wars and serves as the antagonist of Obi-Wan and Anakin throughout the first half of Revenge Of The Sith.
1.4.7.4. Con: Captain Phasma is a flat character and is only interesting to the plot insofar as she poses as an antagonist to Finn's arc. It was appropriate for her character to die at the time, and in the way that she did.
1.4.7.4.1. Con: Captain Phasma being killed to remove a flat character is exactly the type of lazy storytelling that TLJ is criticized for. Rather than killing a character for being uninteresting and devoid of meaningful impact, the better solution would have been to not fill the movie with characters that needed to be killed just for being poorly developed characters.
1.4.7.4.2. Con: Bringing back an admitted "flat character" from apparent death, only to kill her all over again within minutes, is indicative of cheap, lazy writing.
1.4.8. Pro: Films such as The Avengers show an ensemble casting can succeed if the writing is tight and the plot focused. Neither were present in The Last Jedi.
1.4.8.1. Con: The Avengers is able to rely on its characters being developed over two Iron Man movies, two Hulk movies, a Captain America movie, a Thor movie, forty years of comics and a half century of American popular culture. The Avengers movies would have to be written in a drastically different way were they not able to fall back on that.
1.4.8.1.1. Pro: Look to The Justice League movie for some of the issues with an ensemble movie that has had too little screen time dedicated to its constituent members beforehand.
1.4.8.2. Con: The Avengers, too, has been accused of failing to develop several of its ensemble members, for example Hawkeye.
1.4.8.3. Con: Quicksilver was also underdeveloped in The Avengers - to name another example. The Last Jedi went for more than your typical "Popcorn Plot". It pushes the viewer to grow.
1.4.8.3.1. Con: Comparison unreasonable. Most of the fundamental characters are very well represented in the narrative of The Avengers. In The Last Jedi, even characters that we were supposed to care about as protagonists, like Finn and Rose, are poorly used and most of the viewers never really cared about their "adventures" - Finn stills an almost underdeveloped character. The roster of "protagonists" is way smaller than in The Avengers, even though we had a poor plot in terms of characters development.
1.4.8.3.1.1. Con: The plot points and what the viewer can take from them are much different than that of an Avenger movie. Popcorn Plot is one that makes easy sense beginning to end and doesn't require much more from the viewer than for them to munch on popcorn :\) That can be done with almost any series, given a significant amount of time to develop characters over several movies. The non-comparison here would be in how many movies we have to draw for Avenger characters vs. the new trilogy.
1.5. Con: The movie sets up and launches the Star Wars series beyond what was established in the original and prequel trilogies in terms of its narratives, themes, and plot.
1.5.1. Con: Many proponents of The Last Jedi laud its supposed defiance of expectations. While some set-ups are subverted, others play out with banal or predictable familiarity. It is a half measure in keeping with the rest of the movie.
1.5.1.1. Pro: Just when it appears all is lost for the noble hero, the seemingly invincible dark lord is betrayed and murdered by his apprentice, a death that was telegraphed beforehand.
1.5.1.1.1. Con: While the death of Snoke may have been predictable in the regard that it follows a familiar framework, it was very unexpected that it happened already in the 2nd movie of the trilogy, rather than at the end.
1.5.1.1.1.1. Pro: This is especially shocking given that the character is built up to be very powerful and calculated, which makes his demise before the audience has gotten a chance to see him in battle, unexpected.
1.5.1.1.2. Pro: Supreme Leader Snoke's death parallel's the death of Emperor Palpatine in the Return Of The Jedi.
1.5.1.1.2.1. Con: The Supreme Leader, Snoke is killed off, leaving young Kylo to fill his shoes, without an apprentice. This is a huge departure from the status-quo.
1.5.1.1.2.1.1. Con: On conclusion of the battle that follows the death of Snoke the first thing which Kylo Ren does is attempt to recruit Rey as an apprentice.
1.5.1.1.2.2. Pro: Both die from being betrayed by their apprentice.
1.5.1.1.2.3. Pro: Both die due to being blinded by their own arrogance.
1.5.1.1.2.4. Pro: Darth Vader kills Palpatine in order to prevent the death of the protagonist of the original trilogy, Luke. Kylo Ren kills Snoke in order to prevent the death of the protagonist of the new trilogy, Rey.
1.5.1.1.2.4.1. Con: The situations are different. While Darth Vader killed the Emperor to save Luke, Kylo killed Snoke to fulfill his journey to the Dark Side. He also followed his promise to finish what Vader started, by taking his Master place as the Supreme Leader, the same way that was suggested to Luke about the Emperor in Empire Strikes Back.
1.5.1.2. Pro: Having initially sought out a reclusive master secreted in a remote location, our young hero leaves before her training is complete. She does so to take on a powerful dark lord and his apprentice, in an effort to turn the latter away from the dark side. However, to get to the apprentice, she must first surrender herself to the custody of the large militarised force guarding him.
1.5.1.3. Pro: In an effort to crush their rebellious opponents, the militarised establishment force arrive with land vehicles that are all but indistinguishable from AT-AT walkers, on a planet that so closely resembles Hoth that a minor character has to explicitly demarcate its salty surface from a snowy one by tasting it.
1.5.1.4. Con: Luke Skywalker's projection and death are unprecedented in Star Wars and while the movie gives clues to it, the salt under his feet does not move for example, it seems very few would predicted this development.
1.5.1.5. Con: In order to create subvert some setups others have to play out in a familiar manner. If all setups were to be subverted then the audience would quickly recognise that the outcome will always be the opposite of expectations. By creating a number of setups and having a subset of them subverted the creators create a narrative mystique.
1.5.2. Pro: Choosing to center the plot on the remnant of the resistance leading a slow motion chase in space until they run out of fuel, made this the bravest of the core films. The slow and seemingly certain doom faced by the resistance were huge stakes set in a seemingly small narrative.
1.5.2.1. Con: This story line was derivative of another popular Sci-fi series, "Battlestar Galactica", in which the remnants of humanity struggle to outrun the Cylons \(who suspiciously always seem to be one step behind\).
1.5.2.1.1. Con: Both The Last Jedi and Battlestar Galactica reference a traditional narrative of escape and exodus. They are both derived works.
1.5.2.2. Con: In regards to being the bravest of the core films, many would hold the original movie as being the most brave or daring. People tend to forget that most companies and their executives told George Lucas that his movie would be a failure and wanted nothing to do with it. The movie is also responsible for many new innovations in special effects.
1.5.3. Pro: The Last Jedi selected its themes to deal with present day issues.
1.5.3.1. Pro: The First Order is essentially coded as a Neo-Nazis organization. The movie makes clear that women are present and dealing with the issues at hand, much more so than Episodes 3 and 6. Rose Tico reminds us of something that has become forgotten amidst present-day political debate. Poe's story line reminds him to remain cool and work with those on his side rather than rushing in alone. Rey has to surpass the "older generation."
1.5.4. Pro: As it is said in the movie, it is time to let go of the past. The whole film is making a point about its own existence.
1.5.4.1. Con: The audience most likely does not want to let go of the past but experience the Star Wars it knows and appreciates, even if it includes new elements, as was the case in The Force Awakens.
1.5.4.1.1. Con: Some of the audience does not want to let go of the past, while another does. In the words of Obi-Wan, "..Let Go, Luke..." as he makes his final run at the death star.
1.5.4.1.1.1. Con: A majority of Star Wars fans do not want to let go of the history of Star Wars, because doing so would be an insult to their love of the vast multimedia franchise.
1.5.4.1.1.2. Con: One thing is to be excessive on old nostalgic values - another thing is to break any sense of narrative or logic with cringe unexpected scenes \(Am I hearing the sound of Leia Poppins levitating around on vacuum? Or the noise of Luke throwing away his father's lightsaber like crap?\).
1.5.4.1.1.2.1. Con: Leia's use of the force is one example, and you can safely google that and find points to be made from a negative standpoint \(lots - it's easy to make fun of\). Our challenge as fans and thinking viewers is to Let Go. If we can't, that's ok too. Do or do not... you know the drill :\)
1.5.4.1.1.2.2. Con: Luke's treatment of the light saber is key in showing us where his mind is at 30 years later. Things change. Mistakes are made. People choose to grow - or they choose to die. Luke had chosen the latter. He was a jaded ex-Jedi \(remember he blocked himself away from the force\) who was living out his last days on caretaker island. This scene is divisive in large part due to how hard it is to relate unless one's life was also full of strife and disappointment, especially at such a deep level.
1.5.4.1.1.2.2.1. Con: The fact is that Luke ever reaching the point we saw him at is entirely unrealistic in the Star Wars canon. Even Mark Hamill described the character as "not my Luke Skywalker" and you can bet a lot of money that his internal feelings are much stronger than he is willing to admit with Disney not wanting bad PR.
1.5.4.1.2. Pro: Rogue One did it. Built without the presence of any Jedi or Sith, but at the same time, respectful to what the Star Wars essence is.
1.5.4.2. Con: There is a reason Star Wars is still around after 40 years.  It has nothing to do with letting go of the past, and everything to do with creating new adventures while paying respect to the universe.
1.5.4.3. Con: It was not time to let go of the past quite so intensely and so quickly.  Give Star Wars original trilogy fans this trilogy \(we got cheated out of I-III because of Lucas' issues\) and I would bet that 90% of the original fandom would have been okay with the next trilogy letting go of Skywalker-centric storylines.
1.5.4.3.1. Con: The Star Wars community is not well served by creating a movie in which a group of familiar characters are given a familiar story lines.
1.5.4.3.1.1. Pro: Attempts to continue film series by giving familiar characters familiar story lines include [Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0367882/) which is generally regarded as a disappointing  movie.
1.5.5. Con: The best parts of Star Wars was hitting up against something profoundly new in cinematography, plot, and perspective — like riding a wave and witnessing an exploration. The Last Jedi lacked these surprises, except, of course, the sea cow milk shake that brought Luke to the yard.
1.5.6. Con: The movie ends with an almost carbon copy of the original trilogy. Big bad empire vs small band of plucky rebels. It neither subverts nor deconstructs, it only flirts with deconstruction, such as Rey's possible dark side, and Kylo's possible good side, ultimately throwing both of those out the window by the end.
1.5.7. Pro: The ending has left us in previously unknown territory: the resistance and first order are in tatters with nothing left with any amount of certainty, which is a good thing. Let us move away from what we know, as Ren said “forget the sith and the Jedi .....” And with the prospect of the first ever live action grey Jedi in Rey.
1.5.8. Con: It is hypocritical to claim that the movie is letting go of the past by diverging from the previous movie installments, when it is filled with elements from the previous films.
1.5.8.1. Pro: Having the puppet-version of Yoda make a comeback and play a relevant part of the story is such an example of the movie not letting go of the past.
1.5.8.2. Pro: An example of this contrast is the killing Han Solo being stated as letting go off the past, while having Luke milk a hippo shows that it isn't.
1.5.8.3. Con: There is a clear difference between including Easter eggs and referencing earlier movies, and changing the framework of the plot.
1.5.8.3.1. Pro: The killing off the characters who were central to the original trilogy is important to allow the plot to centralize around new characters.
1.5.8.3.1.1. Pro: As long as characters such as Luke and Han remains alive, they end up either taking up the spotlight away from the newer characters like Rey and Poe, or they end up being reduced in a way that insults their character.
1.5.8.3.2. Pro: Having the protagonists of the original trilogy constantly around interferes with the development of the plot. Smaller references or cameos like Luke getting green milk or Yoda appearing briefly does not.
1.5.8.4. Con: The milking scene is indicative of Luke's changes in the past 30 years. He is consumed by guilt and has become unheroic, to the point of a comedic lack of etiquette, and his actions reflect this.
1.5.9. Pro: Star Wars needed to break new ground in order to stay relevant, as The Force Awakens set up a path that mirrored the original trilogy too closely. The Last Jedi is what Star Wars needs going forward.
1.5.9.1. Pro: This movie was superior to the last 4 installments.  It reinititated the mystery and surprise so devoid of episode 1-3.  The Force Awakens seemed a complete retread of past material and its new characters offered little depth or purpose. The Last Jedi begun the process of fixing that.
1.5.9.2. Con: The "pre-story" having been tarnished by the prequels, longtime fans \(people who viewed the movie during the original release of Star Wars and who were fans of it\) had reason to count primarily on the post-story of notable middle-trilogy characters to be addressed in episodes VII-IX.
1.5.9.2.1. Pro: The excitement that occurred when the new trilogy was announced was from longtime fans primarily.
1.5.9.2.2. Pro: J.J. Abrams understood this anticipation from longtime fans \(perhaps too well\), and VII was a good set up to some answers about what becomes of Luke, Leia, Han, Chewbacca, and the Droids.
1.5.9.2.3. Pro: Rogue One, which dealt with Star Wars themes but relied only minimally on previously known characters, was not as highly anticipated as VIII was, which could be evidence of continued expectation of resolution of middle-trilogy character arcs.
1.5.9.2.4. Con: Given that the based of people who saw and liked the movies and may consider themselves contained in the term "original fans" it is not possible to make any claims on behalf of such a diverse group and claims that do are unjustified.
1.5.9.3. Con: Yet it could be argued The Last Jedi borrowed too many elements from both The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi to feel truly unique.
1.5.10. Pro: The Last Jedi is unexpected. Defying fan expectations is risky and exactly what a franchise needs.
1.5.10.1. Con: While defying expectations is needed, that doesn't mean that everything which does defy expectations is good. The film defied expectations it should've respected have while going along with expectations it should've left behind.
1.5.10.1.1. Con: Season 7 of Game of Thrones were tailored to fan service i.e. meet expectations and hopes of the fans, yet has been criticized for this specific decision. It is likely that The Last Jedi would have received substantial criticism if they were to simply give in to fan expectations and respected expectations/provided fan service.
1.5.11. Pro: The movie moves away from heroes having to be royal bloodline and towards the idea that anybody could somehow wind up fighting for any cause they believe in, anyone can become a Jedi and it doesn't matter where they came from.
1.5.11.1. Con: The lead-up to Rey having irrelevant parents makes it an empty non-reveal.
1.5.11.2. Pro: The idea that every central character to the plot has to be connected to another, previously major character, such as the Skywalkers, is getting tiresome. It is therefore refreshing to see The Last Jedi break apart from that by making Rey's heritage irrelevant.
1.5.11.2.1. Con: The tale of the Skywalker lineage and those that surround them is Star Wars. If you go forward in time from the Phantom Menace, everything should eventually come back to the Skywalker lineage.
1.5.11.2.1.1. Con: While this is George Lucas's initial vision for Star Wars, Disney which now owns the franchise, may choose to go forward with another vision.
1.5.11.3. Con: Though the stories were framed on one particular lineage, the claim that the heroes were of a royal bloodline by necessity is not accurate. A diverse range of species have been depicted as Jedi in previous entries.
1.5.11.4. Con: Luke Skywalker could be described as an everyman in Episode IV. The Rebel Alliance as a whole makes this concept.
1.5.12. Con: The movie is still almost completely centralized around characters and theme's from the previous trilogies or characters/theme's deeply connected to those past trilogies.
1.5.12.1. Pro: The biggest role besides Rey in The Last Jedi, Kylo Ren is in many ways connected to the characters of the previous trilogies.
1.5.12.1.1. Pro: Kylo Ren is the son of Leia Skywalker and Han Solo.
1.5.12.1.2. Pro: Han and Leia named their son Ben after the protagonist of the prequels and Luke's mentor during the original trilogy, Obi-Wan Kenobi.
1.5.12.2. Pro: The First Order resembles the Empire from the original trilogy in many ways.
1.5.12.2.1. Pro: The appearance of the First Order's military is essentially the same as the military of the Empire during the original trilogy.
1.5.12.2.1.1. Pro: The First order's starfleet is made up of Tie-fighters, and Dreadnoughts which essentially looks like a bigger version of the Star Destroyer's from the original trilogy.
1.5.12.2.1.2. Pro: The design of the First order's soldiers are essentially the same as the design of the stormtroopers in the original trilogy.
1.5.12.2.1.3. Pro: Supreme Leader Snoke's guards are incredibly similar to the Pretorian guards guarding Emperor Palpatine.
1.5.12.2.1.4. Pro: The First Order uses vehicles in The Last Jedi that bear striking resemblance to the AT-AT's  of the original trilogy.
1.5.12.2.2. Pro: -> See 1.5.1.1.2.
1.5.12.3. Pro: The death of Luke Skywalker mirrors the death of Obi-Wan Kenobi.
1.5.12.4. Pro: The movie even ends with the resistance being turned into rebels, making the distinction between them and the rebels from the original trilogy even smaller.
1.5.12.5. Con: These changes take time and of course it's still centralized on the Skywalkers and all, in order to move away from that you have to accept that it's been that way until recently, and then from there you write your new stories, gradually moving away from the original families and characters, it doesn't happen overnight.
1.5.12.5.1. Con: Kylo Ren is Ben Solo, not a Skywalker. No one calls him by that name. He never mentions Anakin Skywalker \(instead focusing on Darth Vader\). Instead this movie shows us the last Skywalker dying.
1.5.13. Pro: The narrative that "This is not going to go the way you think" is used dynamically in the movie in a way which both surprises the audience while still having a clear red line throughout the plot.
1.5.13.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.1.3.1.
1.5.13.2. Pro: The use of force illusion/force projection throughout the film sets up some interesting theories regarding the conclusion of the trilogy.
1.5.13.2.1. Pro: The way in which Luke uses Force projection to trick everyone including the audience that he is physically present at Crait, manages to both surprise the audience and to make us question other event's in the film such as the apparent death of Snoke.
1.5.13.2.1.1. Pro: If Luke was able to create physical manifestations like the pair of dice from such a far distance, it is plausible that the very powerful Supreme Leader Snoke was able to fake his own death using Force projection.
1.5.13.2.1.1.1. Pro: The appearance of Luke's force projection appears to be a younger version of himself and similarly, the Snoke that we see in The Last Jedi appears to be slightly younger and less damaged than the appearance of Snoke in the Force Awakens.
1.5.13.2.1.1.2. Pro: We see Snoke easily throwing General Hux around using the force via a hologram early in the film. This supports the idea that Snoke can use his powers effectively over large distances.
1.5.13.2.1.1.3. Con: There is no reason to assume that Snoke was not physically present on the First Order's flagship. It is not clear where else he might be - and why his projection is protected by bodyguards.
1.5.13.2.1.1.3.1. Con: Snoke is described as a master manipulator by both the director of the movie and the actor who portrays Snoke, Andy Serkis. This gives a strong reason to believe that Snoke orchestrated both the events that led Kylo and Rey to his chambers, and the outcome of what unfolded there.
1.5.13.2.1.1.3.2. Con: If Snoke had the intent to make Kylo and Rey believe that he was physically present when in fact he wasn't, having the Praetorian guards around was a necessary step to take in order to keep up the charade.
1.5.13.2.1.2. Con: Luke's Force projection never physically interacted with other material on Crait, showing that there are limits to the ability.
1.5.13.2.1.2.1. Pro: Luke's shoes leave no marks on the ground where as other people who were physically present left red marks.
1.5.13.2.1.2.2. Pro: Kylo Ren's lightsaber passes right through Luke's Force projection.
1.5.13.2.1.2.3. Con: Snoke is seemingly more powerful than Luke and were probably in a closer proximity to his Force projection than Luke was to his. This means that Snoke could possibly pull of a physically manifested Force projection.
1.5.13.3. Pro: Plot twists such as Finn and Rose failing with what was thought to be the last hope of the resistance breaks away from the audience expectations that we know how things are going to turn out with regards to the subplots.
1.5.13.4. Con: This is heavily undercut by constant use of deus-ex-machina. No tension can build up if disasters have no tangible consequences: Leia doesn't die in space, Finn doesn't even get hurt from falling into what we presume is a pit, Finn's sacrifice is negated by Rose, neither of them is captured/injured afterwards, Snoke's manipulation of Rey/Kylo is overcome the moment it is revealed etc.. An alternative, equally good hacker is magically found.
1.5.14. Con: There are a lot of parallels between The Last Jedi and earlier movies like The Empire Strikes Back and The Return of the Jedi, both thematically and visually.
1.5.14.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.1.1.2.
1.5.14.2. Pro: Kylo Ren asks Rey to turn to the Dark Side and join him in ruling the galaxy. In Empire Strikes Back, Darth Vader makes the same offer to Luke.
1.5.14.3. Pro: The Battle of Crait at the end of The Last Jedi has strong visual affinity with the Battle of Hoth at the beginning of The Empire Strikes Back.
1.5.14.4. Pro: The Last Jedi has a side story where the protagonists are seeking a man with a criminal background on Canto Bright, a city of luxury and wealth, only to be captured and imprisoned before making an escape. This strongly parallels the story around Lando Calrissian and Cloud City from Empire Strikes Back.
1.5.14.5. Pro: The Last Jedi has a side story where Rey trains with an aging Jedi master on a remote planet in a natural setting so that she can understand and control her force sensitivity. The Empire Strikes Back has a side story where Luke trains with Yoda on the swamp planet Dagobah to become a more powerful Jedi.
1.5.14.6. Con: The parallels here are nods and tributes. Contrast this with The Force Awakens, which is almost entirely a remake of A New Hope. The Last Jedi instead gives us a deeper understanding of the Force, introduces themes of inequality, a rejection of authoritarianism, and constantly subverts expectations set up by the previous films.
1.5.15. Pro: The movie goes beyond heroic tropes and establishes its protagonists as heroes who make grave mistakes and have to deal with the consequences.
1.5.15.1. Pro: This changes the formula of the older movies where mistakes were treated in a much more lighthearted manner and usually not used to call the protagonists' character into question.
1.5.16. Con: Expanding beyond previously established themes doesn't make a movie good, just risky, and the risk does not pay off in this film.
1.5.16.1. Con: The movie "pay off" in a saga cannot be measured without considering the other episodes. By opening new paths for the Star Wars universe to follow, the movie made it possible for the series to keep existing as a creativity tool for writers and creators of the next movie and generations, without the thematic restraints that the previous films had.
1.5.17. Con: Star Wars was previously: swashbuckling adventure, a fairytale, and for the whole family. Moving beyond \(or just subverting\) those key themes is a step away from why the previous films were universally embraced. It enters a different genre of filmmaking.
1.5.17.1. Con: There are many scenes in Star Wars which are not swashbuckling adventure. The defeat of the Rebels on Hoth is an example of that, as is the capture of Han Solo on Bespin.
1.5.18. Con: While ostensibly a defence, this claim actually fails to commit either way to the pros and cons of said departure from the series' established elements. It could be argued by the well-documented fan division, and the [unprecedented box office decline](http://comicbook.com/starwars/2017/12/24/star-wars-the-last-jedi-box-office-drop/) that the cons have it.
1.5.18.1. Con: As argued by Chris Anderson in [The Long Tail](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Long_Tail_\(book\)), box office decline is a wider phenomenon to do with how people consume movies through home video, dvd, and now streaming rather and how the multiplex cinemas enables studios to show the same film on many screens in the opening weekend. There is no strength to an argument about box office decline for The Last Jedi because all the global trend is that all movies suffer increasing decline.
1.5.19. Pro: It rethinks many fundamental ideas about the nature of the Jedi and the Force and in doing so opens up a richer set of possibilities.
1.5.19.1. Con: It only rethinks a couple fundamental ideas, not many. One of those is that training is required to harness the Force \(Rey seems to need none\); another is that people can be Force sensitive rather than being a member of the Jedi religion. Otherwise, the Force seems to be described in about the same way as when Old Ben Kenobi explains it to his house guest Luke Skywalker in "Star Wars"
1.5.19.1.1. Con: Rey may seem to need no training but during The Last Jedi not only does she undergoes some training, she is also defeated by Snoke, suggesting that training was required.
1.5.20. Pro: The themes established in The Last Jedi succeed where The Force Awakens did not: they offer new perspectives on notions of hope and faith \(in both the rebellion and the force\) that tell new narratives in the Star Wars universe.
1.6. Con: The movie is fast-paced, unpredictable and delightful to watch.
1.6.1. Con: The movie misses opera-like scenes, it is emotionally fast paced, and it doesn't give time to swell in emotions.
1.6.1.1. Con: At the same time, the Last Jedi was [the longest](https://www.bingeclock.com/film/marathon/star-wars-1) of any Star Wars movies to date.
1.6.1.1.1. Con: Which actually is something that plays against the movie. The movie had so much time available, but yet they never delivered the opera saga narrative than a Star Wars movie with such length could have done.
1.6.1.1.2. Con: The movie suffers from this extensive length as it is used in the wrong way i.e filled with unnecessary scenes and moments which add nothing rather than truly inspiring emotion.
1.6.1.2. Pro: Rose's latter romantic affection for Finn seemed entirely from out of left field, even uncomfortable, because too little time was spent exploring those possibilities in their relationship.
1.6.1.2.1. Con: Rose's first scene with Finn has her expressing something similar to infatuation for him as a hero of the Resistance. The second beat of the relationship is the scene where she shares information about her childhood sharing closeness, the third their mutual incarceration where they share a sense hopelessness. While movies necessarily compress time and interaction there seems to be enough to justify the affection.
1.6.1.2.2. Con: Given that the movie takes place during the unfolding of a number of very intense events, it is reasonable that romantic emotions arise more easily and are exacerbated.
1.6.1.3. Con: -> See 1.2.3.5.
1.6.1.4. Con: The battle with Rey and Kylo against the guards was extremely well done, and the final scene with Luke battling Kylo was nothing if not operatic, complete with Luke dying to the original swelling score and setting sun.
1.6.1.4.1. Con: The [Elite Praetorian Guard](https://www.starwars.com/databank/elite-praetorian-guard), supposedly Snoke's "[elite personal bodyguards](http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/Elite_Praetorian_Guard)", are bested by a girl with [no training](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JtB5yVC5QxQ) who is shown to be [clumsy](https://youtu.be/nydJTb5m6Xc?t=1m11s) with a lightsaber, and a guy [incompetent](https://youtu.be/rWF0f183tSA?t=2m10s) enough to be beaten by that girl \(when she had no experience\), and even [needs to be saved](https://youtu.be/fQm9hPmVUCs?t=2m54s) by her in this fight. Rey & Kylo Ren are outnumbered 4:1, but guards either [don't fight](https://youtu.be/f83D18xL7VE?t=49m51s), [twirl around and run away](https://www.reddit.com/r/StarWars/comments/8lrm6j/praetorian_guards_twirling_to_nowhere_no_wonder/), or their weapons just [disappear](https://www.cbr.com/last-jedi-throne-room-continuity-error/). [Seriously](https://twitter.com/TheLocalGod/status/981103133853065216), [look](https://youtu.be/7LMZk0QC3CE?t=7s). Also, Rey "[kicks away](https://i.imgur.com/EOpntSb.jpg)" three at once. Fire the [choreographer](https://m.imdb.com/title/tt2527336/fullcredits/stunts).
1.6.1.5. Pro: Luke is told about the death of his best friend off-screen, and given little time to grieve in the pursuant scene.
1.6.1.5.1. Con: Luke Skywalker isn't known for his dramatic on-screen grieving.
1.6.1.5.1.1. Pro: Look at how he grieved the deaths of Aunt Beru and Uncle Owen; he basically shrugs and says 'eh let's go I guess.', as with Obi-Wan,  and Yoda. The most we get is solemnly setting Vader's pyre ablaze. He does explore the Millennium Falcon's cockpit mournfully and takes the dice. That's about as much as you're going to ever squeeze out of his character.
1.6.1.6. Pro: Chewie owed Han a life debt, the deepest bond of loyalty imaginable. While his fury at Kylo is immediately expressed in The Force Awakens, the effect of Han's death on Chewbacca is barely addressed throughout The Last Jedi.
1.6.2. Con: With a runtime of over 2 hours and 30 minutes, the pacing of the overall movie itself was slow and drawn-out.
1.6.3. Con: The fast pace of the movie makes it too intense for many people.
1.6.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.6.1.
1.6.4. Pro: As The First Order is on the heels of the Resistance, posing as a constant threat of annihilation throughout the film, making every scene filled with a sense of urgency.
1.6.4.1. Con: It should've felt this way, but due to the totally unrealistic nature of the "chase" it simply felt like a plot device with it being entirely predictable that the main characters would escape just before they ran out of time.
1.6.4.1.1. Con: Unlike franchises that are designed to have more realistic plots like ex. Game Of Thrones, the Star Wars franchise has always been partly built on the idea that the main characters manages to narrowly escape death with fine marginals. It would be wrong to expect The Last Jedi to diverge from this framework.
1.6.4.1.1.1. Pro: One of the biggest narratives of the Star Wars franchise is the idea that the Force can aid characters during critical moments, hence the iconic phrase; "May the Force be with you.".
1.6.4.1.1.1.1. Pro: An example of this in the original trilogy is the unrealistically terrible aim of stormtroopers being explained as it being the [will of the Force](https://moviepilot.com/p/rogue-one-why-stormtroopers-have-bad-aim/4176059) that the blaster shots miss their intended targets.
1.6.4.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Stormtrooper's poor aim in Star Wars is confirmed by Grand Moff Tarkin as being a part of an attempt to allow the Rebels to escape having attached a homing beacon to their ship. They are missing on purpose. In other scenes Stormtroopers shoot \(or have shot\) Jawas, Owen & Beru, some Ewoks, the Rebels on Hoth, and Leia on Endor and the entire cast of Rogue One. Stormtroopers are not especially poor shots unless they are trying to miss.
1.6.4.1.2. Pro: In a realistic situation, the First Order would have had and deployed smaller ships capable of keeping pace with the Resistance cruiser. Even had they been unsuccessful, they would've known that forcing the Resistance to defend against an attack would drain their fuel rapidly.
1.6.4.1.3. Pro: The coincidence of a planet with *the* master codebreaker being within 18 hours return trip journey, including time for being arrested, embarking on a long chase and then escaping, is far fetched when it has been established that hyperspace travel can take weeks even in one of the fastest ships in the galaxy.
1.6.4.1.3.1. Pro: The time spent in hyperspace in Star Wars has never been clear and has always taken, in essence; "as long as it takes". Hyperspace timings are far-fetched and always have been.
1.6.4.1.4. Pro: Many of the actions taken by the Resistance are only performed at the last moment, particularly hyperspace kamikaze and deploying the cloaked transports, were already available to them at an earlier point. That no one realised the possibility of using this kind of tactic is unrealistic.
1.6.4.1.4.1. Con: When Poe notices that Holdo is fueling the transports he notes that the action is already in progress signifying that the the tactic was formulated at an earlier point in the narrative than the audience discovers it. The audience discovers this at "the last moment" but Holdo has put the plan into motion before that.
1.6.4.1.4.2. Con: Kamikaze attacks are not considered to be competent military strategy. When Japanese pilots started to use the tactic in World War II the American Generals concluded that it was a result of the failure of Japanese military strategy in that the reuse of the aircraft was not possible. To say it is gross incompetence to not follow a tactic which is considered at best to be a failure of military strategy is not a sustainable claim.
1.6.4.1.5. Pro: Even ignoring its large, slow destroyers, the First Order has hundreds or thousands of Tie Fighters and small ships at its disposal. Yet General Hux decides against their employment and in favor of waiting for the rebels to run out of fuel, thus giving them time to come up with an escape plan.
1.6.4.1.5.1. Pro: Even without the use of smaller vessels, it should have been possible to surround the rebel fleet by having ships jump in front of it via hyper space.
1.6.4.1.5.1.1. Con: The extreme speeds of hyperspace mean that short distance jumps are unlikely to be precise. And any overshoot would just mean the case starts again but in the opposite direction.
1.6.4.1.5.1.1.1. Con: Reasonably precise travels through hyperspace  are apparently possible. Otherwise, Han Solo would not have been able to bypass the shields covering the surface of the Starkiller Base in The Force Awakens.
1.6.4.1.5.1.1.1.1. Con: Once they've been plotted and over a stretch of time. A quick start/stop like the one alluded to by the claim would appear to shred the craft ala Holdo.
1.6.4.1.5.1.1.1.2. Con: The feat achieved by Han Solo in The Force Awakens had never been accomplished before, and throughout the Star Wars universe was considered entirely impossible. Even Solo wasn't entirely successful, he crashed into a forest and had there been rocky terrain in the area the ship may well have been entirely destroyed.
1.6.4.1.5.1.1.2. Con: A short hyperspace jump is tactically unnecessary; the First Order can simply have some ships jump out of the system, then jump back into the system in the path of the Resistance ships.
1.6.4.1.5.1.2. Con: If the fleet was to go into hyperspace and attempt to "jump" ahead - unless they went a different direction first and then tried to to see if the rebels stayed the course....means they would have to "jump" through the rebels... we know what happens now if that was the case...
1.6.4.1.5.2. Con: The smaller fighters were outran initially - remember how they had to be recalled?
1.6.4.1.5.3. Con: General Hux is a man who suffers from extreme hubris, overconfident to the point that it leads to his temporary defeat.
1.6.4.1.5.4. Con: Smaller ships could be destroyed, leading to pointless loss on the Order's side. If the Rebels only have enough fuel for a few hours and the Order knows it, dispatching vulnerable fighters and bombers is not justified.
1.6.4.1.5.4.1. Con: Its stated at the beginning of the film, that big ships with big guns, are basically no threat to small fighters, and given the fact that Kylo Ren destroyed all fighters of the Resistance, there is no danger of deploying fighters and bombers.
1.6.4.1.5.4.2. Con: Also, it doesnt seem that the First Order would have some big problem with resources, so they can afford losing a few TIEs.
1.6.5. Pro: The movie is a case study in subversion of expectations. From Luke not being there at the end, to the X-Wing not being lifted from the water, to Snoke's untimely death.
1.6.6. Con: The middle third, with its nearly pointless Canto Bight subplot, is a drag.
1.6.6.1. Con: In the Cantobight subplot it seems that Rose and Fin fail to achieve their goal but eventually they run into the the broom boy whom they inspire to become a part of the New Resistance someday in the future. This gives meaning to the subplot.
1.6.6.2. Con: Every part and subplot of a story does not have to achieve a specific purpose for the plot's development in order to be compelling.
1.6.6.2.1. Pro: A The Canto Bight subplot is relevant to the movie as a whole because it develops the character of Finn and Rose, and because it diverges from the increasingly common expectation that a story arc is irrelevant if nothing significant is achieved for the plot.
1.6.6.2.1.1. Con: Just because our expectations of expecting a well-written subplot are subverted, that does not somehow magically make it good. It’s still poorly written, tonally inconsistent, has a bloated run time, is riddled with coincidence and deus ex machina, and it’s pretty boring to boot.
1.6.6.3. Con: During the first viewing of The Last Jedi these scenes are disconcerting because they are a new environment that viewers have not seen. While it may not be done effectively the director intends the viewer to feel shaken from the narrative, and notice the differences, before rejoining the traditional environments.  In this way this is no different from Star Wars 1977's Cantina Scene. On multiple viewings this scene feels less distracting because it becomes part of the fabric of the movie.
1.7. Pro: The Last Jedi has numerous issues with its plot.
1.7.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.
1.7.2. Pro: Some events in the movie are story-breaking elements that either cheapen prior events, weaken the Star Wars lore, or provide a solution that renders much of the technology superfluous.
1.7.2.1. Pro: The movie's themes and especially its final shot \(the random boy Force-pulling the broom to him\) suggest that [a great many people will become Force users](https://www.polygon.com/2017/12/30/16791054/star-wars-the-last-jedi-force-franchise-disney-lucasfilm-rian-johnson), rather than a relative few. It could be argued Disney are taking the series away from its roots, based on the mystique of the Force, towards to a facile Superhero-style free-for-all in keeping with their massively popular Marvel stable of movies.
1.7.2.1.1. Con: Disney already own Marvel Studios which it allows to create movies in an autonomous manner true to the lore of the Universe they are in. Indeed Disney have invested in that intellectual property significantly. There is little to suggest that Disney will attempt to make significant changes to the intellectual property they have invested in especially when the nature of those changes would damage that property.
1.7.2.1.1.1. Con: Disney already made a significant change to a big part of what we call Star Wars intellectual property. The Expanded Universe canon tales, accepted by most of the fanbase as good and interesting, is gone forever, and accepted now as "Legends" of the original storyline that Disney didn't even finished. Disney wiped out everything that Star Wars had after Episode VI and replaced with a way more "commercial", soft and less elaborated plot.
1.7.2.1.2. Con: There have always been people all over the galaxy who can tap into the force.
1.7.2.1.3. Con: "The Force is what gives a Jedi his power. It's an energy field created by all living things.", according to Obi-Wan in episode IV. There was never "on movie" restrictions to any person being able to use the Force, only towards it's power levels.
1.7.2.1.4. Pro: Disney are explicit in their intentions to kill the past. “Let the past die; kill it, if you have to.” was the overarching theme of the entire film. Kylo Ren breaks his helmet, which symbolizes Vader, Kylo Ren kills Snoke, Luke kills himself, and Yoda torches the Jedi texts \(the knowledge and tradition of the past\). The Last Jedi in particular is very heavy-handed in its explicitness of its opinion that the past is of no worth any longer.
1.7.2.2. Pro: Technology now exists that can track enemies without the need for a tracking device on the enemy ship, even after they have jumped millions of light years away. This is an incredible plot contrivance that breaks the principles of space combat and retreat in the Star Wars saga, and poses a problem for future creators.
1.7.2.2.1. Con: This technology is shown in The Last Jedi but it is created in Rogue One: A Star Wars Story. Thus the use of the technology in The Last Jedi is honouring elements of Star Wars lore rather than breaking them.
1.7.2.2.2. Pro: This could become a real issue. Like the creation of cellphones in the real world is a huge obstacle for screenwriters. There always needs to be an explanation now why a character can't just phone for help.
1.7.2.2.3. Pro: The [introduction to this technology in Rogue One](http://uk.businessinsider.com/last-jedi-hyperspace-tracking-rogue-one-2017-12) is so fleeting, it could hardly be considered an addition to the lore at all. There is little lore to honour, much less form a significant plot point around.
1.7.2.2.3.1. Con: Hyperspace tracking is mentioned in one movie and then occurs in the next. This is a [valid form of narrative foreshadowing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chekhov%27s_gun).
1.7.2.2.3.2. Con: It is a narrative irony that in an attempt to destroy the Death Star the Rebellion ignored something which would have an equally devastating effect on The Resistance.  This irony creates an emotional resonance.
1.7.2.2.4. Pro: It is not definite that the "Hyperspace Tracking" mentioned by Jyn during Rogue One means "tracking enemy ships through space". The only evidence for this is [a now deleted tweet](https://screenrant.com/star-wars-rogue-one-last-jedi-hyperspace-tracking/) from one of the writers. The term is too throwaway and ambiguous to be ascribed concrete meaning.
1.7.2.2.4.1. Con: That hyperspace tracking is mentioned in one movie and followed through in the next is a very unambiguous piece of [narrative foreshadowing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chekhov%27s_gun). The meaning of the phrase in Rogue One: A Story Wars Story is made concrete by its relevance in The Last Jedi.
1.7.2.2.4.2. Pro: The project could just as well refer to tracking the Empire's numerous hyperspace projects, or improving the predictability of their own jumps, or to improve locating ally ships once they return from Hyperspace etc.
1.7.2.2.4.2.1. Con: In [narrative fiction](https://www.helpingwritersbecomeauthors.com/dont-confuse-readers-with-similar/), names are not duplicated be they are projects or people unless a plot point hangs off the misunderstanding that causes.
1.7.2.2.5. Con: Star Wars has always depicted an arms race between The Empire/The First Order and its enemies in which The Empire innovates a new weapon and the opposition counter it.
1.7.2.2.6. Pro: Whether or not the technology was introduced conceptually in Rogue One, or any other movie is irrelevant: Johnson decided to practically apply it for the first time during *this* movie, The Last Jedi, thereby causing the issues described in the parent claim.
1.7.2.2.6.1. Con: The hyperspace tracking technology is no less unbalancing than building The Death Star was and one could argue that the narrative of Star Wars is that the militaristic side of the conflict are engaged in a process of creating new weapons and technologies which the more spiritual side sabotage. If the Rebels  can find a way to blow up The Death Star, or take down the Shield Bunker they would in time be able to get around hyperspace tracking.
1.7.2.2.6.1.1. Con: The Death Star was established then destroyed within the running time of one movie. The assumption that The Resistance will counter the tracking technology in future works is just that.
1.7.2.2.6.1.1.1. Con: Given the example of [Radar](https://www.kialo.com/%5Bspoilers%5D-is-the-last-jedi-one-of-the-weakest-star-wars-movies-so-far-7055/7055.0=7055.1+7055.411+7055.1058+7055.1107-7055.1111/-7055.1111) it would be unrealistic were a counter to a technology not be created.  We should remember that the counter to nuclear arms is dubbed "[The Star Wars Project](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strategic_Defense_Initiative)"
1.7.2.2.6.1.1.2. Con: The claim is that hyperspace tracking technology will have an impact on future space battles in the Star Wars Universe. Any discussion about the future is based on assumptions with the stronger claims in a discussion being the ones which assume the more likely scenarios. Assuming that technological advancement will continue is a likely scenario.
1.7.2.2.6.1.1.2.1. Con: The parent claims that the terms of battle are broken for future Star Wars stories. It does not assert the impossibility of their repair by way of narrative elaboration.
1.7.2.2.6.1.1.2.1.1. Con: To state that the terms of "all future space battles" are changed is to assert the permanence of the claim. The word "all" would mean the total number of space battles following those in The Last Jedi. If every space battle following The Last Jedi were broken then no repair would have been possible given the metaphysics of a fictional narrative. And so this claim does, in point of fact, does asset the impossibility of repair.
1.7.2.2.6.1.2. Con: Assuming the rebels will counter this technology is a fallacious [appeal to probability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Appeal_to_probability).
1.7.2.2.6.1.2.1. Con: The history of technology both in the real world and in the Star Wars Universe is one of advancement and counter. To conclude something else would happen is willful incredulity.
1.7.2.2.6.1.2.1.1. Con: Concluding that *anything* will happen on the basis of history is unhelpful in the case of a fictional story that can go in any direction the writers choose.
1.7.2.2.6.1.2.1.1.1. Con: The writers of Star Wars have always respected the internal metaphysical consistency of the Universe they create within and informed that by the real world. To suggest that they would abandon that is to suggested they they would fail to understand the remit of being a screenwriter. Such a claim would be obtuse to the point of irrelevance.
1.7.2.2.6.2. Con: By applying the technology in this movie, Rian Johnson and Gareth Edwards create the point of narrative irony built firmly on Star Wars lore.
1.7.2.2.6.2.1. Con: This is a poor example of [Narrative irony](http://education.seattlepi.com/definition-narrative-irony-5308.html), which requires the audience to know something the characters don't. Because it was such a throwaway line at the time, the relevance of "hyperspace tracking" was not absorbed nor understood until [after The Last Jedi was released](https://www.reddit.com/r/StarWars/comments/7kfwce/the_last_jedi_easter_egg_in_rogue_one/).
1.7.2.2.6.2.1.1. Con: That some members of an audience are less attentive than others does not change the ironic statement
1.7.2.2.6.2.1.1.1. Con: While it is not unreasonable to assume that some especially attentive audience members would’ve discussed the meaning of the Hyperspace tracking reference beforehand, there is simply no evidence of public discourse that predates the release of The Last Jedi. There is precisely 100% more evidence of public discourse after its release. The available evidence suggests that the Narrative Irony in point was poorly executed, as it seemed to bypass the large majority of the audience.
1.7.2.2.6.2.1.1.1.1. Con: It would be impossible to state that the writer to know what every viewer would have noticed and not noticed within a movie and what they discussed in public.
1.7.2.2.6.3. Con: The same could have been said in the real world about the invention of [Radar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radar) which is now countered by the invention of [stealth technology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stealth_technology). Military technological advantages are on a timeline of advancement then counter.
1.7.2.2.7. Pro: The immediate application of lore only introduced a year before in the most chronologically preceding movie \(Rogue One\) is weak, and disrespects the spirit of what [lore represents](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/lore).
1.7.2.2.7.1. Con: Many elements are introduced into the narrative without precedent and accepted. Until it occurs in The Empire Strikes Back there is nothing to suggest that Carbon Freezing human beings is possible. In introducing hyperspace tracking in Rogue One there is more, not less, respect for lore as the information is commuted from one narrative to another.
1.7.2.2.8. Pro: If the technology has been in development since before A New Hope \(i.e. a good 30 years\), Snoke, the supreme leader of The First Order, surely would have been aware of its existence at least, and not need Hux to inform him during their first dialogue.
1.7.2.2.8.1. Con: It is plausible that The First Order weren't able to recover and replicate the technology from the Empire until recently.
1.7.2.3. Pro: The Rebel flagship's design of building the bridge so close to the ship's outer hull, is a flaw too easy to exploit in a military scenario. By doing this, The Last Jedi is making the same mistakes as in other movies rather than breaking from what is clearly a flawed spaceship design.
1.7.2.3.1. Con: This is an argument that you could make about any of the films, all of the large ship's bridges are exposed in this way and it has caused catastrophes before.
1.7.2.3.2. Con: This is possibly a valid critique of a design flaw of the ship, but it's a reality of the Star Wars universe that we have seen before and does not represent a plot hole.
1.7.2.3.3. Pro: This type of spaceship design is present both in previous Star Wars films and in other franchises such as in Star Trek.
1.7.2.3.4. Pro: There's always been high expectations on the Star Wars franchise to revolutionize sci-fi movies. The Last Jedi shouldn't be exempt from the expectations to meet these standards.
1.7.2.4. Pro: The attack by BB-8 is too convenient a narrative contrivances and as such interferes with suspension of disbelief. The plot development makes a hitherto unaggressive character into the greatest warrior of The Resistance.
1.7.2.4.1. Pro: BB-8 is a droid and movie has already established the possibility of a droid being used in a military context with the inclusion of Battle Droids in The Phantom Menace, Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Sith.
1.7.2.4.2. Pro: Additionally, this development overshadows the heroism and resourcefulness of other characters.
1.7.2.4.3. Pro: Apart from Holdo's kamikaze maneuver, BB-8 is depicted as having the highest kill count in the film. He violently frees Finn and Rose from their jail cell, then rescues them again by commandeering an AT-ST and massacring a multitude of First Order troops.
1.7.2.4.4. Con: The BB-8 scene an example of the Empire/First Order failing to anticipate the actions of small elements/individuals because they are a large organisation.
1.7.2.4.4.1. Pro: The Empire ignore X-Wings attacking the Death Star because they do not consider "single seat fighters to be a threat."
1.7.2.5. Pro: The Dreadnought is destroyed by explosives deployed from above, despite the absence of gravity in space. The bomber's hatches had been open for some time and must have depressurised the chamber. There was no obvious indication of a force field. There was also no obvious indication the bombs had been guided or propelled, otherwise there would be no urgent need to deploy them from overhead.
1.7.2.5.1. Pro: Previously bombing in Star Wars has been achieved by launching slower, high payload, missiles. Aside from the push from what one assumes is artificial gravity on the bomber and the pull from the weak force of gravity from the Dreadnought there is little to suggest the bombs would fall as they do.
1.7.2.5.2. Con: If one looks at any of the physics in Star Wars too close they fall apart:  No one could control a speeder bike at the speeds they travel, lasers do not work as they frequently do in the movies.
1.7.2.5.2.1. Con: Even science fiction universes must adhere to their own rules, and Star Wars operates in a universe with gravity. The ludicrousness of this physical presentation goes beyond reasonably paying homage to World War 2.
1.7.2.5.3. Con: The Dreadnaught was potentially large enough to have gravity.
1.7.2.5.4. Con: The Dreadnaught \(or bombs\) may have been magnetized.
1.7.2.5.4.1. Con: Magnetization does not rely on an up or down meaning the bombers did not need to hover over the "top" of the Dreadnaught, and yet they did, implying that the bombs operate under the principles of normal gravity.
1.7.2.5.5. Con: Star Wars 1977 established space battle in the series as being based around attacks in the Second World War. The bombing in The Last Jedi pays homage to that with a B-52 style attack.
1.7.2.5.6. Pro: Paige Tico should also have been sucked out of the ship when the hatches opened.
1.7.2.5.6.1. Con: Paige Tico is seen moving around the ship with full gravity which we assume is generated on the ship and by dent of some technology that gravity is not broken when the bay doors open. This should have prevented the bombs from falling rather than have her be sucked out.
1.7.2.5.6.1.1. Con: When the bay doors open there appears to be no shield of any sort. Without shields this would have exposed the craft to vacuum pulling everything out towards space. We even see this happen in the Clone Wars, Revenge of the Sith and even the new Battlefront game. It is basic physics.
1.7.2.5.6.1.1.1. Con: Force fields and shielding in Star Wars are only obvious when they are hit by an energy weapon or an object.
1.7.2.5.6.1.1.1.1. Con: This statement would be false, many shields in the Star Wars franchise have appeared with a color tinted hue that is constantly present. Most of these shields are used in doorways of some sort. They are also constantly seen in hanger bays. An example can be seen [here](https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/starwars/images/7/7d/Ray_shield.png/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/250?cb=20120921023224). A small colored tint would have immensely helped the scene.
1.7.2.5.7. Con: -> See 1.7.2.5.6.1.1.1.
1.7.2.5.8. Con: The only time there appears to be no gravity is when an object \(such as a space ship\) is in orbit. There was no indication that the Dreadnought and Resistance ships were orbiting the nearby planet. Therefore, the bombs would fall toward the planet. That said the ships weren't hovering directly "above" the planet so the bombs should have veered, but still would have fallen out.
1.7.2.6. Pro: -> See 1.7.2.1.4.
1.7.2.7. Con: The scene between Luke and Yoda served to both call back to the original trilogy and as a reminder that Luke still has much room to grow. It led to Luke raising to the challenge and saving the resistance during the Battle of Crait \(salt flats\)
1.7.2.8. Pro: Using the acceleration into lightspeed as a weapon is unprecedented within the Star Wars franchise. This revolutionary appliance of lightspeed technology could be developed into weaponry for space battles in future films.
1.7.2.8.1. Pro: Even if the ship was not in Hyperspace at the moment of collision, the issue remains that ships can become incredibly destructive battering rams in the distance between the ship's starting point and the point the ship reaches lightspeed. With one or more ships, this maneuver could have been performed earlier against the Dreadnought \(resulting in far fewer losses to the Resistance\).
1.7.2.8.2. Pro: One can hardly believe that the "hyperspace ram" tactic, if possible, would not have been discovered and perfected much earlier. The Star Wars timeline spans thousands of years and hyperdrive was commonly accessible most of that time.
1.7.2.8.3. Pro: This scene potentially creates retrospective plot hole. If a ship can crash into tangible objects while in hyperspace, no pilot could be reasonably expected to avoid asteroids or small moons over millions of light years between jumps.
1.7.2.8.3.1. Con: That's presumably what happens when a ship is 'preparing for light speed'; the course is being mapped out before the jump.
1.7.2.8.3.1.1. Con: It seems incomprehensible that technology exists, even in the Star Wars galaxy, that can 'sense' millions of light years ahead instantaneously to confirm the path is free from obstruction. There may be exist the equivalent of galactic Google maps, but the vastness of uncharted space would make this almost as unlikely and dangerous.
1.7.2.8.3.2. Con: The vastness of space and the infrequency of objects in it means that it is highly unlikely that one would come into contact with anything were one to draw any line between two clear points in the universe. Imagine plotting a course between two points at sea and then considering how likely it is you would hit a specific grain of rice. Space is very, very empty.
1.7.2.8.3.2.1. Con: If you believe the theory that most, if not all, systems are surrounded by an [Oort cloud](https://www.space.com/16401-oort-cloud-the-outer-solar-system-s-icy-shell.html), a [ship would seem likelier to encounter foreign objects when leaving the present system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oort_cloud#/media/File:PIA17046_-_Voyager_1_Goes_Interstellar.jpg), entering the designated system, and passing through the Oort cloud of any systems en route \(for example, the diameter of our Oort cloud is though to be as much as 3.2 light years\).
1.7.2.8.3.3. Con: [As discussed](https://www.kialo.com/\[spoilers\]-is-the-last-jedi-one-of-the-weakest-star-wars-movies-so-far-7055/7055.0=7055.1+7055.411+7055.426-7055.767), nothing in The Last Jedi suggests that a ship can crash into something while at lightspeed just that in the acceleration to lightspeed it can do that.
1.7.2.8.4. Con: It was stated that hyperspace jump consumes significant amount of fuel. The Empire had no equal enemies while the Rebels had limited resources of all kinds, so development of hyperspace weapons is unlikely for both sides.
1.7.2.8.4.1. Con: The Empire has nevertheless focused much of its resources on creating weapons of mass destruction throughout the trilogy. They would have either experimented with it \(given the limited resources this weapon now used\) or just adopted it.
1.7.2.8.5. Con: We surely don't know enough about in-universe engineering to say this for certain. The ramming move was probably so effective because the ship's mass was so huge. Mass-producing warp engines capable of moving battleship-sized lumps of matter into hyperspace for one-shot suicide missions is likely prohibitively expensive.
1.7.2.8.5.1. Con: If one cruiser-sized projectile almost devastated an entire fleet we can safely assume that a number of smaller, torpedo-sized ones would also constitute a frightening and less unwieldy weapon. Even more so, given that there is no known way to defend against such an attack.
1.7.2.8.5.2. Con: Hyperdrive is commonly used in Star Wars galaxy. It is installed on civillian ships and even small craft, like fighters \(ex. X-Wing\). As such, it is unlikely that is too expensive. Moreover, a drive installed on a ramming vessel would only have to last for one jump, which would massively reduce construction costs.
1.7.2.8.6. Con: Vice-Admiral Holdo's ship does not ram the Dreadnought in hyperspace, it does it as it speeds up as it prepares to go to lightspeed. There is a good deal of precedent in the lore that to achieve lightspeed a ship must first travel very quickly at sub-lightspeed.  Weapons which travel at great speed have been seen before in Star Wars.  An example of this would be Star Killer Base's weapon.
1.7.2.9. Pro: Luke is a Jedi master now, but he's still being trained by Yoda, as though he's still on Dagobah, learning the ropes. Has this character progressed much at all since the events of Episode VI? In fact, he seems to have regressed to his Episode V incarnation, in a few ways: knowledge, temperament, profundity, etc.
1.7.2.9.1. Con: Possible significant side-meaning to the Yoda & Luke scene is putting emphasis on disconnecting the new movies from the rules of the old ones. Destruction of Jedi texts has a meta meaning of telling the viewer that the saga will continue in a different direction.
1.7.2.9.2. Con: The overall arc that was missed by some fans is that of Luke becoming the Legend that he saw himself as not. He blocked himself off from the Force; became an 'anti-Jedi' of sorts. All this only to learn in the end a profound truth; what it truly means to be a Master. Yoda explains that to him in his final lesson, and Luke embraces the enormity and the terrible majesty that is the Force one final time and becomes a legend. We get a glimpse of that with the kids at the end telling his story.
1.7.2.9.3. Con: He is a master, but one who has shut himself off for many years. It's not unfeasible that he might regress in those key areas, including his sanity.
1.7.2.10. Con: Force ghosts that can wreak destruction on the material world cheapen death in Star Wars.  Now, so what if a Jedi dies?  That simply means that he becomes indestructible while still having a profound physical effect on the world.  Once he achieves a certain level of mastery, a Jedi should just kill himself; that way, he frees himself of all corporeal limitations and vulnerabilities \(ghosts can't be killed, and I doubt they have to eat\), while retaining his power to affect the material plane.
1.7.2.10.1. Con: The only force ghost seen interacting physically with the world is that of Yoda. He, while not the strongest force user of all, had hundreds of years more to contemplate the Force than any other movie character. Until we see Luke, Sidious or Anakin perform similiar feats, it's safe to assume Yoda is the only one capable.
1.7.2.10.2. Con: One could argue that corporeal limitations were already transcended when Luke Skywalker decides to "telepathically" phone in his portion of the Battle of Crait.  We never knew that degree of noncorporeality was possible yet we are more okay with it than we are with a 950 year old Jedi Master ghost's new tricks.
1.7.2.10.2.1. Con: This claim assumes critics are more accepting of Luke's Force projection than Yoda's new tricks, which isn't necessarily accurate.
1.7.2.10.3. Con: To quote Obi-Wan: “If you strike me down, I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine.". So yes - it rings very true in light of the claim above.
1.7.2.10.3.1. Con: Obi-Wan became more powerful because he was able to guide Luke spiritually. At no point did he physically assist Luke in destroying the Death Star.
1.7.2.10.4. Con: One may argue that to be a Jedi as depicted throughout the Star Wars universe is more than "trying to game the system" e.g. 'Once he achieves a certain level of mastery, a Jedi should just kill himself to gain that power.'. That is where most fans lose the thread to what the movies as a whole are communicating. It's not one iron proof; it is many. It's a balance.
1.7.2.10.5. Con: Yoda was able to manipulate a storm to produce lightening on Ahch-To, where the force is particularly strong. It's not certain he could do that just anywhere, or do any normal physical thing.
1.7.2.11. Con: The plot, while having references to previous films, was more of it's own thing than The Force Awakens. Not only that, but so many references were made from Original Trilogy movies that the next movie hardly has anything to copy off of. Increasing the chances of an even more original sequel after this movie.
1.7.2.11.1. Con: This argument is extremely similar to an argument used to defend The Force Awakens: "they copied so much because they saw how poorly the prequels went, and the next one will be original". The idea that the next film might be good, does not change the product we got.
1.7.2.12. Pro: How Luke's lightsaber ended up in Maz's possession still has not been explained, and now that the saber has been destroyed, any future explanation will be largely pointless.
1.7.2.12.1. Pro: It is lazy scriptwriting to leave out important script details.
1.7.2.12.2. Con: The state of the McGuffin does not alter the importance in its position in the narrative. The revelation as to how it came to be in Maz's possession will not be altered by the fact it is broken \(or fixed, as we assume it will be\).
1.7.3. Pro: Every plot point is a fake-out designed to subvert viewer expectations, but the film never follows through on new story directions. By the end of the film, the status quo remains fundamentally unchanged.
1.7.3.1. Pro: The Resistance start the movie on the run from The First Order \(despite resoundingly defeating them in The Force Awakens\), and end the movie on the run from The First Order, just with fewer people.
1.7.3.1.1. Pro: It goes without saying that defeat is not necessarily permanent or all-encompassing. The First Order do suffer a major defeat in The Force Awakens, as does The Empire in A New Hope. Whereas the Empire struck back within the narrative, the First Order strikes back in the opening text scroll.
1.7.3.1.1.1. Con: The opening text scroll is part of the narrative.
1.7.3.1.2. Con: The claim is inaccurate and so the inference on the storytelling is unreliable . In The Force Awakens The Resistance destroy a single weapon of The First Order but it is never suggested that they have defeated The First Order. The precedent for this is in Star Wars 1977 it is not suggested The Empire is defeated because The Death Star is destroyed.
1.7.3.2. Con: -> See 1.5.1.1.2.1.
1.7.3.3. Con: The status quo is meaningfully changed, as the Resistance is nearly completely wiped out, left with only enough members to fill the Millennium Falcon and with no resources.
1.7.3.4. Pro: Rey approaches Luke, intent on causing him to leave his self-imposed exile to fight with the rebels/resistance. She fails to cause him to leave his island, winning only his one-time force-projected intervention in helping the rebels escape.
1.7.3.5. Pro: Rey seeks Jedi training, but ultimately gets only two of three lessons about why the Jedi should end, neither of which matter, and neither of which turn her away from the Jedi path.
1.7.3.6. Pro: Finn and Rose seek the master code breaker on Canto Bight to help them disable the tracking device. They fail to recruit the first master code breaker but find another. He betrays them. They don't disable the tracking device.
1.7.3.6.1. Con: This story line had an entirely separate purpose of developing the relationship between Rose and Finn, playing up the new notions of inequality and animal cruelty.
1.7.3.6.1.1. Pro: Their notion of inequality was based on incorrect propaganda and incomplete understanding. The patrons of Canto Bight include arms dealers who sell necessary weapons to the Resistance which facilitates the organization in fighting the evil of The First Order. By undermining Canto Bight, Finn & Rose have hindered the Resistance’s pipeline for illicit goods and services including almost certainly illegal military grade weapons & therefore have helped The First Order to thrive.
1.7.3.7. Pro: The movie begins with a power imbalance of First Order superior in technology and might, the Resistance inferior in technology and might. At the end of the film, nothing has changed.
1.7.3.7.1. Con: The movie ends with Snoke dead and The First Order with a significantly weaker lead.
1.7.3.7.1.1. Con: The rebels lost nearly 100% of their ships and forces, while the First Order lost a significantly smaller, albeit indeterminate, percentage. The First Order seems to have an even stronger material advantage than before.
1.7.3.7.1.1.1. Con: However, the movie ends with the clear message that there is hope that the New Rebellion can rebuild their forces.
1.7.3.7.2. Con: The New Rebels while smaller in force, have their leaders undergo significant development which breeds hope for their chances in the fights to come.
1.7.3.7.2.1. Pro: Rey sees substantial development in both character and power.
1.7.3.7.2.1.1. Pro: At the start of the movie, Rey lacks self-esteem and her place in the light seems at risk. At the end of the movie Rey has cemented herself in the light side and gained the confidence and self-assurance needed for her to be a strong leader figure for the New Rebels.
1.7.3.7.2.1.2. Pro: Rey trains enough to grow a lot both in using her lightsaber and in controlling her force abilities, making her a much more potent threat to The First Order by the end of the film.
1.7.3.7.2.2. Pro: Both Poe and Finn undergoes substantial personal development that  teaches them to make better judgment in the future, avoiding to remake the mistake of acting rash unnecessarily.
1.7.3.7.2.3. Pro: Rose emerges as a potentially strong leading figure for the New Rebels by the end of the film.
1.7.3.7.3. Con: At the start of The Last Jedi, The Resistance are attempting to recruit a Jedi, Luke and at the conclusion they have a Jedi, Rey which would represent a change in the power balance.
1.7.3.7.3.1. Con: Rey grew in force power independent of any action Luke or any other character took in The Last Jedi \(according to Snoke this was in response to Kylo’s growing power\), so the resistance would have had a Jedi anyway.
1.7.3.8. Pro: The film begins with a rift between Kylo \(dark side\) and Rey \(light side\). The film suggests the intriguing possibility that each could potentially turn to the other side, with a possible realignment with dark-dark, light-light, and reverse. Instead, they stay on the same sides they began on.
1.7.4. Pro: Numerous decisions of characters are hard to comprehend.
1.7.4.1. Pro: Snoke is apparently concerned about his safety, hence the bodyguards. Yet he allows Rey into his throne room with a weapon and fails to realize that Kylo Ren is turning on him, even though he can - apparently - read and control minds.
1.7.4.1.1. Pro: It is common in Star Wars history for a Sith master to ultimately be betrayed by his apprentice. "Survival of the fittest" seems to be the structure on which Sith power is based. With this in mind, Snoke's unguarded hubris when it comes to an apprentice as prodigiously powerful as Kylo seems hackneyed and hard to fathom.
1.7.4.1.1.1. Con: Despite the common misconception, the term "fittest" in "survival of the fittest" does not refer to power or to strength. It means the organisms which best fits the environment.
1.7.4.1.1.2. Con: Snoke's hubris is in keeping with Darth Sidious' approach which Luke Skywalker describes as an overconfidence which is a weakness. That Snoke shows the same overconfidence is in keeping with an idea that the unlimited power \(which Sidious claims to have in Revenge of the Sith\) brings with it a certain attitude of seemingly misplaced superiority.
1.7.4.1.1.3. Con: Neither Snoke nor Kylo Ren are Sith.
1.7.4.1.1.3.1. Con: The viewer never finds out enough information about Snoke to discover if he is or is not Sith but considering previous Sith have used The Force in the same way Snoke does, and behaved in a similar way, the assumption is valid.
1.7.4.1.1.3.1.1. Con: Snoke and Kylo Ren cannot be Sith as the Sith ended with the demise of Darth Sidious and Darth Vader \([p.1-2](https://www.cbr.com/star-wars-last-jedi-snoke-kylo-ren-sith-master-apprentice/)\).
1.7.4.1.1.3.1.1.1. Con: Snoke and Renn act like Sith, and have the same aims of Sith. [A Sith by any other name...](http://A rose by any other name would smell as sweet)
1.7.4.1.1.4. Pro: Snoke's demise due to his own arrogance and hubris makes little sense given how the character was built up during the course of The Force Awakens and The Last Jedi.
1.7.4.1.1.4.1. Pro: Snoke appeared to have studied The Empire that Palpatine ruled over and seemed to know how, and what led to Emperor Palpatine's demise. Given that Snoke knew this, it makes it less little that he would fall for the same mistake.
1.7.4.1.1.4.2. Pro: Supreme Leader Snoke is portrayed as a smart and wise character that is thorough and cautious. His character therefore appears to be inconsistent when he is suddenly overcome by arrogance and hubris.
1.7.4.1.2. Con: There is precedent for this exact mistake in a powerful Sith: the ultimate folly of Palpatine where he lets down his guard long enough for Vader to turn on him.
1.7.4.1.2.1. Con: This makes it even more baffling that Snoke falls prey to the same mistake. One could assume that the leaders of the galaxy's most powerful empire learn from mistakes of their predecessors.
1.7.4.1.2.1.1. Con: Snoke is not necessarily dead.
1.7.4.1.2.1.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.13.2.1.
1.7.4.1.2.1.2. Con: Snoke took into account that Kylo could kill him as Vader killed Palpatine, but concluded incorrectly that it was not going to happen. That is a different mistake from not having considered the possibility - the only way to avoid the broader mistake of "getting killed by apprentice" is by not having an apprentice.
1.7.4.1.3. Con: The point of Snoke's death was that he was too proud and sure of his victory. Rey was allowed in with a weapon that, in her hands, was useless against Snoke, but Kylo Ren simply outsmarted him.
1.7.4.1.3.1. Pro: Hubris is, in fact, an important theme throughout this movie.
1.7.4.1.4. Con: It was implied that Kylo/Ben, who had inherited Vader's power, had been fooling Snoke, probably because he did not trust him 100%, by allowing him free access to his thoughts.
1.7.4.2. Pro: Instead of responsibly reporting Canto Bight's civil abuses to the New Republic, Finn and Rose take it upon themselves to free the [fathiers](http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/Fathier)- which go on to decimate the casino and surrounding areas. Finn is satisfied that they, "Destroyed that town, made them hurt", failing to appreciate that the responsibility of repairing the massive property damage will mostly fall on the poor and slave labour.
1.7.4.2.1. Con: Finn and Rose's actions against slave owners provide an inspiration - an inspiration shown in the closing shots of The Last Jedi - for those slaves and the town's poor to rise up and create a more egalitarian society lessening the hardship they will face.
1.7.4.2.2. Con: The New Republic have no jurisdiction over Canto Bight.
1.7.4.2.3. Con: Property destruction would increase the amount of work for the town's poor allowing them more work and the chance to increase their prices according to simple economics of supply and demand.
1.7.4.3. Pro: After relieving Holdo of her command, Poe does not have her secured in the brig, allowing a relatively easy escape.
1.7.4.3.1. Con: Poe's character is well established. He takes an action without considering the consequences. This is indicative of Poe's lack of planning which is a common thread in his character. It may have been a poor idea on his part but it is in keeping in his character and easy to understand because of that.
1.7.4.4. Pro: Only in a moment of greatest danger do the rebels utilize their cruiser to destroy the First Order's flagship. It is incomprehensible why they did not opt for that earlier as they were about to abandon their cruiser anyway.
1.7.4.4.1. Con: Attacking another ship via hyperspace travel may be risky and difficult, thus this may not have been a feasible plan to rely on.
1.7.4.4.2. Con: It would need someone to sacrifice themselves in a certain suicide mission. This is something the Resistance/Rebellion does not want to rely on.
1.7.4.4.2.1. Con: Ships in the Star Wars universe supposedly have an auto pilot that can take care of this maneuver.
1.7.4.4.3. Pro: Holdo became a throw away character, who only seemed to make the situation worse with every decision. It should have been Admiral Ackbar who gave his life to safe the others, which would have left Holdo to work with Poe to help develop each of their characters moving forward.
1.7.4.4.4. Pro: One of their smaller ships could also have performed the ramming manoeuvre.
1.7.4.4.4.1. Pro: The hyperspace ramming technique may have only been effective if the ship doing so is sufficiently large. Given this appears to be the resistance's only capital ship sacrificing it is a last resort.
1.7.4.4.4.2. Pro: Several of the smaller ships ran out of fuel anyway. These ships could have easily been used to at least attempt a hyperspace jump into the First Order's ships.
1.7.4.4.5. Con: The plan was to fool the First Order so the rebels weren't followed into the hidden base. If they'd rammed in the first place, the First Order would look for survivors nearby. Only when they realised the First Order noticed their deception, Holdo improvised a blunt solution to protect the survivors.
1.7.4.4.5.1. Con: Somehow Benicio Del Toro's character "DJ" knew about the resistance's attempt to flee on smaller ships. There seems to be no real reason as to how or why he would have known this information.
1.7.4.4.5.2. Con: Sub-light travel in the Star Wars universe appears to be substantially slower than the speed of light. Given that light takes 5.5 hours to travel from the Sun to Pluto, this 18-hour chase probably started within the hidden base's solar system. The astronomical distances involved in any solar system would make misdirection virtually impossible. Thus, it is a poor plot point to say that the Resistance could fool the First Order in any significant way as to their ultimate destination.
1.7.4.4.6. Pro: It's also nonsensical that Holdo waited until a majority of the transports had been taken out before she decided to perform her heroic maneuver. The second even one of the transports was blown up, she should have known to act.
1.7.4.4.7. Con: The Rebels have limited resources. A flagship didn't do enough damage to destroy Snoke's ship. Thus, while the strategy could be used against the Death Star or in similiar desperation scenarios, it is not viable for a prolonged conflict.
1.7.4.5. Pro: Leia performs perhaps the most spectacular feat in the Force to date in surviving for a sustained period in the vacuum of space, and quickly convalescing from her injuries- yet does not assist Rey in lifting the collapsed boulders in the escape tunnels on Crait.
1.7.4.5.1. Con: As noted [here](https://www.kialo.com/\[spoilers\]-is-the-last-jedi-one-of-the-weakest-star-wars-movies-so-far-7055/7055.0=7055.1-7055.12-7055.129-7055.659) video and board games have misinformed is that The Force is a collection of magic spells and tricks. The movies do not support, and at one point even mock, that assumption through Han: "That's not how The Force works!". It would seem that The Force is inconstant in how it can be used, when it can be used and by whom. That Leia can perform one very power act does not mean she can perform lesser acts. The idea that The Force is a skill tree of spells is not supported in the movies.
1.7.4.6. Pro: A central element of Luke Skywalker's experience has been the process of redemption that his father experienced. Yet he concludes that Kylo Ren is beyond redemption and repeatedly attempts to dissuade Rey from believing otherwise.
1.7.4.6.1. Con: Luke's repeated attempts to dissuade were made during his period of "growth" - basically while he had shut himself from the force \(Rey realizes this when she open up and sees - nothing - from Luke\). Once Yoda delivers the final lesson \(In Spirit and in Truth, yes lol, look it up\) Luke is able to see past himself and truly become one with the Force.
1.7.4.6.2. Con: Luke's training wasn't really completed in the original trilogy. He showed his weaknesses in Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi. Yet, he had to rebuild the whole jedi order by himself. It's a huge burden for a sole man, and somehow he might have been predestined to fail.
1.7.4.6.3. Con: That "central element of experience" took place 30 years ago. You cannot expect people to have no more \(and negative\) "central elements of experience" throughout almost half of his life. People change.
1.7.4.6.3.1. Con: On the contrary, there is nothing that could possibly have happened to Luke that would even come close to rivaling what he triumphed through during the Original Trilogy.
1.7.4.6.3.1.1. Con: The failure to create the things he and his comrades wanted after Return of the Jedi is what rivals Luke's experiences. The Rebellion won the war but, to borrow a phrase, lost the peace. The ambitions of the characters are unrealised and they fail to create the world they were fighting for. In the case of Luke he attempts to create a new Jedi order to maintain peace in the galaxy and in doing so enables the opposite in Kylo Renn. It is this that creates his personality in The Last Jedi.
1.7.4.7. Con: The older Star Wars movies, too, had numerous characters make decisions that are hard to comprehend. The Last Jedi does not stand out in this regard.
1.7.4.7.1. Con: The Last Jedi seems to feature a significantly higher number of incomprehensible decisions to advance the plot than any other previous Star Wars movie. It is indicative of comparatively bad or lazy writing.
1.7.4.7.2. Pro: In The Force Awakens, the background of Finn is described as that of a child soldier who was trained and brainwashed from birth to serve the First Order. How he suddenly has a change of mind and defects is not explained and difficult to comprehend.
1.7.4.7.2.1. Con: It may have been his first slaughter in the field.
1.7.4.7.3. Pro: In The Force Awakens, Kylo Ren realized that Rey is enormously powerful when he fails to extract information from her via torture. Yet he leaves her guarded by a single Stormtrooper after he leaves. After the events of the previous three movies, hardly anyone can consider Stormtroopers as capable anymore.
1.7.4.7.4. Pro: In Return of the Jedi, the Emperor lures the rebels into a trap by letting them learn about the new Death Star. It is hard to comprehend why he didn't stop at that, but instead also gave them the vital information that they subsequently used to disable the Death Star's shields and destroy it.
1.7.4.7.5. Pro: Luke was well known for doing crazy stupid decisions. For example: Luke leaves Yoda's training to, completely unprepared and single handedly, face Darth Vader.
1.7.4.7.5.1. Con: Luke knew his friends were at tremendous risk of death. No person with a heart in their chest would have acted differently.
1.7.4.8. Pro: A lot of the key events in the movie are not tactically sensible. For example, no other star destroyers assisted the Dreadnought as it was being attacked by the bombers. Then a single bomber destroyed the Dreadnought.
1.7.4.8.1. Con: Since the Dreadnought is defended by fighters and turrets, it's reasonable that Star Destroyers didn't have weapons viable for assistance scenario. Turrets are short range, and big caliber guns can't be expected to destroy the small craft without damaging the Dreadnought.
1.7.4.9. Pro: Luke Skywalker went into exile with the decision to die there, as he explains. Yet, for whatever reason, he left a map that would guide friend or foe to his location.
1.7.4.9.1. Pro: Returning to the final shot of The Force Awakens,  [Luke's ​expression](http://cdn.player.one/sites/player.one/files/2016/06/09/luke-skywalker-star-wars-episode-8.jpg) indicates that he is emotional and relieved that someone found him- not peeved or apathetic, as Johnson's retcon would have you believe. It's clear from the acting alone that Luke intended to be found in a time of need.
1.7.4.9.1.1. Con: Had the filmmakers of The Force Awakens intended Luke's reaction to be relief and a preparedness to return to battle they would have included a scene in which that was explicit. They created a deliberately ambiguous ending.
1.7.4.9.1.1.1. Con: A neutral expression on Luke's face would have created ambiguity. This [facial expression](http://cdn.player.one/sites/player.one/files/2016/06/09/luke-skywalker-star-wars-episode-8.jpg) shows Luke literally on the verge of tears.
1.7.4.9.1.1.1.1. Con: Facial expressions are an important part of non-verbal communication but only a part of communication. To judge on the basis of facial expression is not unfair but it is engaging with the ambiguity. An unambiguous ending would, by definition, not have any scope of engage in speculation. It is within the capabilities of the filmmakers to have Luke would grab the saber and say "I am ready to join the fight.". That they choose not to do this or similar shows they aimed for an unclear ending.
1.7.4.9.2. Con: As far as we know, R2D2 retreived the map without Luke's knowledge or consent.
1.7.4.9.2.1. Pro: [R2D2](http://www.digitalspy.com/movies/star-wars/news/a828709/r2-d2-luke-skywalker-map-star-wars-the-force-awakens/) downloaded the archives of the Empire that contained the locations of old Jedi temples in A New Hope when he was plugged-in to the Death Star's computer.
1.7.4.9.2.2. Con: The Force Awakens very clearly portrayed it as two sections of a whole map, rather than two pieces of information which fit together to show where Luke is. This comes across as a retcon by The Last Jedi.
1.7.4.9.3. Pro: This is actually a big plot hole that probably won't never be answered. It is even more bizarre that he wanted the Jedi to be vanished from the history, yet he made a map to guide people to a forgotten Jedi sanctuary with the last existing books ever made by the order.
1.7.4.9.3.1. Con: -> See 1.7.4.9.2.
1.7.4.9.3.2. Con: Not necessarily. Luke's opinion that the Jedi must end could feasibly have formed during his time on the island, after he created the map.
1.7.4.9.3.3. Con: At no point is it revealed that Luke is the one who made the map.
1.7.4.9.3.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.7.4.9.2.1.
1.7.4.9.4. Con: The map leads to the original Jedi Temple. While it certainly is known as the map "to Luke Skywalker", it can be inferred that the map wasn't of his making, but rather was the map that the characters knew he used.
1.7.4.9.4.1. Pro: The writers of "The Force Awakens"[claim that](http://www.digitalspy.com/movies/star-wars/news/a828709/r2-d2-luke-skywalker-map-star-wars-the-force-awakens/) the map was in R2D2's posession long before it became relevant to the plot.
1.7.4.9.4.1.1. Con: If it wasn't explicated or implied- it didn't happen. Can't rely on outside sources that didn't make it into the film.
1.7.4.10. Con: If a movie portrays a human story \(even from a galaxy far far away\) emotions will make people do dumb things just as real people do, and you don't have to make sense out of it. Maybe we are not used to flawed \(and more real\) movie characters, but that doesn't make it a bad movie.
1.7.4.10.1. Con: Many of the decisions criticised under the parent claim are not made under obvious emotional duress. Many are made in a strategic capacity, or over a prolonged period of deliberation. The individuals mentioned are often admirals and generals, who attained their positions in part due to their ability to rationalise under duress.
1.7.4.10.2. Pro: Especially Kylo Ren is seen on numerous occasions losing all self-control due to anger and rage, for example when he trashes an elevator after meeting Snoke, and when he orders a ridiculous amount of fire power to hit Luke Skywalker.
1.7.4.11. Pro: -> See 1.6.4.1.5.
1.7.4.12. Pro: Rose stops Finn from sacrificing himself to destroy the land cannon, which would have denied The First Order access to the base \(and therefore saved many lives\). She then explains that winning is about "saving what we love"- just as the slaughter of her allies begins due to her interference.
1.7.4.12.1. Pro: This is especially jarring when Vice-Admiral Holdo was exalted earlier in the movie for doing exactly what Finn was attempting to do.
1.7.4.12.1.1. Con: It is generally considered normative behaviour to praise someone who's made a foolishly sacrifice in order to pay respect to the deceased person but at the same time scold someone who foolishly attempted to sacrifice themselves but survived.
1.7.4.12.2. Con: This assumes that Finn's ship could do that much damage to the cannon. I had the understanding that Finn's sacrifice would have been futile.
1.7.4.12.3. Pro: Rose added little to the film overall unfortunately, her crashing into Finn was entirely reckless as there would have been a high chance that her attempt to "save him" could have just as easily killed them both.
1.7.4.13. Pro: Admiral Holdo, for incomprehensible reasons, refused to tell anyone about her Plan to evacuate the rebel cruiser, thus sparking the chaotic trip to Canto Bight.
1.7.4.13.1. Pro: This seems especially egregious as the rebels thereby keep a plan secret from their best pilot - Poe - that would rely on piloting skills in order to escape the First Oder.
1.7.4.13.1.1. Con: Poe had been demoted. Depending on your experience in regard to military hierarchy of command, Poe no longer qualified to take part at that level. Holdo makes that clear when she corrects his use of the Commander title.
1.7.4.13.1.1.1. Con: Yet he found out about the plan and she failed to correct him when he said it would result in them being all killed. She should've had him imprisoned at that point if deciding not to tell him. Simply nonsensical to deny him the information then allow him to roam free on the ship.
1.7.4.13.1.1.1.1. Con: The rebellion is full of 'rebels', and full of trust for one another. Humans make mistakes. Some cost lives. It's good to see the 'ugly' mirrored back at us in the movie. Also: After Poe gets shot and as he's being carried away, Holdo makes a point to comment on just that fact, and does so admiringly.
1.7.4.13.1.1.2. Con: This does not contradict the claim. Vice-Admiral Holdo does not appear to tell anyone \(including Poe\) about the plan.
1.7.4.13.2. Con: One explanation might be the desire to keep the plan secret, possibly from moles in the ranks of the rebels. After all, what almost leads into disaster is that the First Order manages to figure out the plan.
1.7.4.13.2.1. Con: This would only delay the plan being ruined. Any moles would simply transmit this information once the plan was enacted, and thus revealed to all rebels.
1.7.4.13.2.2. Con: As hotheaded as Poe was, it should have been obvious to Holdo that he was not a mole. He had risked his life multiple times in suicidal missions fighting the First Order, and even his mutiny was out of obvious, sincere concern for the Resistance. Yet she had no interest in placating him at this point, even when her command was in serious jeopardy.
1.7.4.13.3. Con: -> See 1.7.4.13.1.1.
1.7.4.13.4. Pro: This is terrible for everyone on board, since her scolding of Poe happens in the open, for everyone to see and for rumors to spread. It's a miracle that Poe took charge of the mutiny, because at this point there were many potential sources of dissent.
1.7.4.13.5. Con: The Resistance knew they were being followed through hyperspace, and the technology was unheard of. This suggests that there is a mole. Poe had just been demoted, and the reasons weren't fully established. The probability of Poe being the mole was too high to ignore. Especially when coupled with the fact that he had unilaterally caused the destruction of a significant portion of the fleet's capabilities.
1.7.4.13.5.1. Con: Leia clearly trusts Poe and Poe's decisions, as is seen in the first part of the movie. There is nothing to suggest that anyone thinks he's a traitor. Even Holdo does not give any such suggestion.
1.7.4.13.5.2. Con: It is extremely unlikely Poe was a mole: Poe was the trusted emissary of Leia to Lor San Tekka from whom he obtained the map to Luke; he destroyed countless Tie Fighters; blew up Starkiller base; blew up the Dreadnought; had unlimited access to Leia, and never hurt her. He knew all Resistance plans. It makes no sense for Holdo not to trust Poe by that point, and Holdo even tells Leia she “likes” Poe. It was just a power play, only added into the script to manufacture tension between characters.
1.7.5. Pro: By failing to answer questions of character identities and motivations, The Last Jedi makes the narrative of the new trilogy harder to opt into.
1.7.5.1. Pro: The motives of the First Order and what the Resistance or Rebellion fight for or against aren't well elaborated. The main conflict in the galaxy seems artificial.
1.7.5.1.1. Pro: Without a Supreme Leader, and the lack of development of the First Order \(they lost Snoke and their Phasma, plus there was little to no showing of their control of the galaxy\), why is a rebellion even needed?  What exactly are they rebelling against?  The mistreatment of animals?
1.7.5.1.1.1. Con: Umm, they took out a few planets and then some in The Force Awakens. We saw the level of control they had in that episode, should this movie do more of the same? The "Machine" that is war is explored more in this movie than any of the others with the addition of the DJ sub-plot and his world-view and presentation to Finn and Rose. At the end, they fight for each other. Here, there, everywhere; not necessarily for one side, as Rose comments to Finn after saving him towards the end.
1.7.5.1.2. Con: You don't need elaboration. The motives are allways the same, just like in real life: both sides want power to impose their way of doing things. In this case, one side thinks they have the right to rule the galaxy above everyone else and the other side wants a republic.
1.7.5.1.2.1. Con: Some visible sign of their dominance in the galaxy and an explanation how it happend is needed. Without it, you lose the feeling of great conflict, something that would make you really invested in the story. That is something, that was done poorly in these last two films.
1.7.5.1.2.1.1. Con: The other Star Wars films didn't elaborate on the backstory of the antagonists either.
1.7.5.1.2.1.1.1. Con: While the previous trilogies did not elaborate much on the backstories of the antagonists, the audience were at least given a good sense of the ability and scope of the antagonists which were consistent throughout the trilogies.
1.7.5.1.2.1.1.1.1. Con: It is made explicitly clear in Star Wars 1977 that The Empire does not have direct control over the entire galaxy but rather starts the movie with a system of regional governors controlling planets through The Senate which it then dissolves. Following that the regional governors are in control of their systems but are oppressed by virtue of fear of The Death Star. One assumes that after The Death Star is destroyed The Empire struggles to maintain control.
1.7.5.1.2.1.2. Con: The first shot of The Force Awakens is a giant Star Destroyer indicating that the first order is powerful and has risen from the ashes of the Empire. The part of The Force Awakens that is confusing is that the Resistance is not the Rebel forces, nor is it a new Republic Army. It is a tiny militia group with low funding due to the political belief as shown in the novel Bloodline was that the grand army led to the Clone Wars and the Empire. The Last Jedi did not need to reestablish this.
1.7.5.1.2.2. Con: The First Order barely, if ever, is actually shown doing something outside of the main conflict. They've been almost exclusively interacting with the Rebels or shady people.
1.7.5.1.2.2.1. Con: -> See 1.7.5.1.2.1.1.
1.7.5.1.3. Con: Supreme Leader Snoke took control over the remaining empire, however, the former Rebellions, who took control, had to make a "resistance" to prevent them from creating a new empire.
1.7.5.1.4. Con: This should have been taken care of in The Force Awakens. That film's primary responsibility was to set the stage for the rest of the trilogy, and explaining the state of the galaxy was part of that.
1.7.5.1.5. Con: It's seems clear in the Star Wars universe that despite the wonders of space travel, they face the same kind of problems we do. Leaders who are driven by ideology, short term ratings, and a country with a great divide between the "haves" and the "have nots". Star Wars is just telling our story with robots and light sabers.
1.7.5.2. Con: Questions of character identities and motivations are addressed. The Resistance character with the exception of Kylo/Ben are motivated by a desire to destroy ideological opposite through armed conflict. The Resistance are motivated by a need to survive in order that there be a voice against the totalitarianism of The First Order. Kylo/Ben is motivated by his need to prove himself to be as good as Darth Vader as we are told in The Force Awakens. Rey by her attempts to find her "place".
1.7.5.2.1. Con: There is very little development in any of the aforementioned character drives: Rey learns nothing about her place. Kylo does not achieve the level he looks for or gets turned from it. The resistance is essentially still on the brink of destruction as they already were. The First Order is exactly the same as they already were, just with a different figurehead.
1.7.5.3. Con: People expecting answers to all their questions in the second entry to a trilogy are setting themselves up for disappointment.
1.7.5.3.1. Con: Most of the outstanding questions *were* answered- leaving Episode 9 in quite a pickle. There are only the outcomes between Rey and Kylo, and between the Resistance and The First Order left to resolve.
1.7.6. Pro: The protagonists, with the exception of Rey, are reactive rather than proactive.
1.7.6.1. Con: This is not entirely true. Poe shows initiative by seizing control. Kylo Ren has the most proactive moment of the whole film when he just kills Snoke. Luke is very passive during the whole film, but his most important moment is one of initiative.
1.7.6.2. Con: Reactive protagonists can create interesting narratives. The characters on the beech in the well regarded [Dunkirk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunkirk_\(2017_film\)) are reactive as are the British in the gripping narrative of [Zulu](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0058777/).
1.7.6.2.1. Con: Non-fictional war movies generally follow different dramatic patterns to fictional Sci-Fi/fantasy. Reactive characters heighten the harrowing and paralyzing chaos of war. Many would argue this tone is not as appropriate in a more optimistic series like Star Wars.
1.7.6.2.1.1. Con: Star Wars, as a series, is at its best when it is borrowing dramatic patterns from other genres. The borrowing of a style from a war movie is no different to borrowing from Westerns in the case of Han Solo, from 1950s Screwball Comedy for much of The Empire Strikes Back's scenes with Han and Leia, or from silent movie stars like Buster Keaton for the never enjoyable antics of Jar Jar Binks.
1.7.6.2.1.2. Con: The Star Wars series has always used optimism as a counterbalance to darker moments. At the conclusion of The Empire Strikes Back one of the characters is captured while another is dismembered. At the conclusion of Revenge of the Sith one character dies, another goes into hiding and the third becomes the most evil person the galaxy. Those moments are all counterbalanced with optimism within the context of the series as, one assumes, will moments in the Last Jedi.
1.7.7. Pro: There are numerous problems with the internal logic of important scenes.
1.7.7.1. Pro: Leia is also able to directly re-enter the ship without an apparent intermediate airlock or similar repressurisation chamber.
1.7.7.1.1. Pro: Poe is, seemingly, able to open the door to bring Leia in and not be sucked into space.
1.7.7.2. Pro: How Luke is able to touch and kiss Leia while on Crait yet make no contact with Kylo during their battle is contradictory. They are all Force users, so this can't be the reason he is able to connect with Leia and not Kylo.
1.7.7.2.1. Con: Presumably, Luke is able to determine the extent of which he is present when using Force Projection.
1.7.7.2.2. Con: Rey and Ren touch because their minds are linked. Luke is using his link to Leia, so he can touch her.
1.7.7.2.3. Con: As discussed [here](https://www.kialo.com/\[spoilers\]-is-the-last-jedi-one-of-the-weakest-star-wars-movies-so-far-7055/7055.0=7055.1-7055.12-7055.129) the Force, as presented in The Last Jedi, is a more inconstant factor and not something which works in same way at different times and with different people.
1.7.7.2.3.1. Con: To quote an in universe example of why this doesn't make sense: "That's Not how the force works!"
1.7.7.3. Pro: Finn was flying at full speed towards the land cannon. Considering Rose took a wide arc to intercept him from the side, this should not have been possible unless she had a significant head start.
1.7.7.3.1. Con: Her speeder could have been faster than Finn's. We also know that he's anything but a good pilot, so maybe he just doesn't know how to fly this thing properly.
1.7.7.3.2. Con: Finn was flying into the weapon which one assumes would have had a slowing effect on his speeder. So while he was at full speed his forward motion would have been less because he was being pushed back. Consider Finn to have been swimming upstream.
1.7.7.3.2.1. Con: So if he was being slowed down significantly for what seemed like a really long amount of time, they could have easily shot him down.
1.7.7.3.2.1.1. Con: If Finn was close then there are [practical reasons an AT-AT Walker](https://www.kialo.com/%5Bspoilers%5D-is-the-last-jedi-one-of-the-weakest-star-wars-movies-so-far-7055/7055.0=7055.1+7055.341-7055.594-7055.1010-7055.1287/-7055.1287) could not target him.
1.7.7.4. Pro: After Finn and Rose crash during the battle of Crait, they somehow make it back to the rebel base. How this is possible in an open plain, after being stranded in front of an enemy army is difficult to imagine.
1.7.7.4.1. Pro: There were also seemingly no attempts to kill either Finn or Rose as he literally dragged her across white salt for what appears to be at least a kilometer before then magically arriving at the base without a scratch. This is a glaring problem in the writing.
1.7.7.4.2. Con: The Crait level of the Battlefront II video game shows a network of tunnels under the battlefield. It is possible that Finn and Rose used these tunnels to return to base.
1.7.7.4.2.1. Con: Having to refer to obscure minutiae in other mediums to clarify plot holes does not equate to strong writing. A simple throwaway line would have been sufficient.
1.7.7.4.3. Pro: On top of that, Rose was unconscious and had to be dragged by Finn. It is hard to see how the First Order wasn't able to capture or kill them in this situation.
1.7.7.4.4. Pro: This is even more surprising as Kylo Ren ordered General Hux and his troops to make "no prisoners" on Crait. Therefore, the battle supposedly was waged with no holds barred.
1.7.7.5. Pro: -> See 1.7.2.5.
1.7.7.6. Con: Most of the well-regarded movies in the Star Wars universe have plot-holes which are also difficult to negotiate, so this doesn't make it weaker than any other film.
1.7.7.6.1. Pro: One of the pivotal scenes of A New Hope takes place in the Death Star's trash compactor. Supposedly, it compacts several times a day - yet there is a monster living in it that never seems to get crushed.
1.7.7.6.1.1. Con: This is not a plot hole. [Dianoga is smart enough to leave before the trash is compacted.](https://www.starwars.com/databank/Dianoga) Luke says it “let go of \[him\] and disappeared,” ostensibly when it heard the groaning of the walls preparing to contract, and decided to flee. Only a creature that had survived a while in this environment would know to do so.
1.7.8. Pro: Finn travels across the outer rim, visits a casino, gets arrested, meets a codebreaker, steals a camel, and then returns, all within the Resistance's 18 hour fuel window.
1.7.8.1. Con: Although this was the weakest part of the story, it doesn't represent a plot hole, we are with this group throughout their entire stay, and there is no movie magic to them getting back to the resistance in time. Light Speed is just really fast.
1.7.8.1.1. Con: If so, most of the rebel personnel could have been evacuated easily and stealthily to a chosen safe location.
1.7.9. Pro: Space fuel never seemed to be an issue before this movie, yet is now a major plot point.
1.7.9.1. Con: This simply indicates that space fuel normally isn't an issue but that this is an unusual situation in which the resistance have been on the run for too long without the possibility to stock up on fuel.
1.7.9.2. Con: There are in-canon instances where lack of fuel was a major plot point.
1.7.9.2.1. Pro: The rebels suffer a fuel crisis during the episode [The Call](http://starwarsrebels.wikia.com/wiki/The_Call) of Star Wars Rebels.
1.7.9.3. Con: Novel problems and plot points aren't problems, much less 'plot holes' since originality in storytelling is usually favored.
1.7.10. Con: Just because something is not shown to us, it doesn't mean it is not there. Many things will be explained by fans, or the upcoming move in the trilogy.
1.7.10.1. Con: Assuming glaring plot problems will be rectified in future is not helpful to the present debate. After all, it took the series 39 years to rectify the Death Star exhaust port problem from the very first movie \(that its architects and engineers designed it with an accessible exterior port that if ruptured, would destroy the entire station\).
1.7.10.1.1. Con: In a series of movies in which the audience is aware that further chapters are coming then it is creatively valid for the filmmakers to hold over the explanations for some elements. Indeed to hold a plot point's explanation over from one movie to the next is no different from holding such explanation from one act of the movie to another.
1.7.11. Con: Star Wars movies are a lesson in "suspension of disbelief". Most, if not all, of Sci-Fi \(Fiction\) requires the same suspension for the sake of enjoyment.
1.7.11.1. Con: Suspension of disbelief is one thing. But disregarding logic is totally different. There are various examples for that in the movie.
1.7.11.1.1. Pro: None of the walkers shot Finn down as he was aiming for the big cannon in a straight line.
1.7.11.1.1.1. Con: AT-AT Walker guns are not easily able to hit fast moving targets. This is illustrated in the assault on Hoth where they are attacked by Rebel Speeders and struggle to defeat them.
1.7.11.1.1.1.1. Con: In Episode V, the Empire at least attempted to shoot them down. And many were actually hit. But on Finn's solo run towards the end, there were hardly any attempts by the First Order to even try and stop him.
1.7.11.1.1.1.2. Con: EpV shows that 30 years prior even the slower and less mobile [AT-ATs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3acC49W3yQk&t=80s) can handily hit fast moving targets, such as snowspeeders. The reason they did not hit even more speeders was that they were ignoring them to focus on base defenses. A reason for this is provided: “that armor is too strong for blasters”. In Ep VIII, neither was the base a more appealing target yet \(the wall was still up\), nor was Finn flying circles around walkers, or even dodging fire.
1.7.11.1.1.2. Con: The AT-AT Walkers' tusk guns are mounted on fixed position with the walker only able to bow the head to a certain degree. In practical terms, this means that if a target gets within a certain distance then the Walker cannot fire the tusk guns at it. It would have to fire its side guns, yet this would require changing the aim of the AT-AT Walker away from the Resistance base.
1.7.11.1.1.2.1. Con: As seen in EpV \(The Empire Strike Back\), the minimum range of the AT-AT chin mounted guns is actually [extremely close range](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Mj7c1DEQ00).
1.7.11.1.2. Pro: -> See 1.7.7.4.
1.7.11.2. Con: A suspension in disbelief never refers to writing direction or character motivation. It is not a suspension of disbelief to criticize a character for making decisions that no reasonable person would ever make in the scenario that they are in.
1.7.11.3. Con: Suspension of disbelief is asking the audience to accept that this is a universe where some people can move objects without touching them. A plot hole is the commander of the rebel army opting to make a suicide run at her attackers only after all her remaining forces were wiped out by herself, without using any of the droids capable of piloting themselves in the army.
1.7.11.4. Con: Such a claim infantilises this particular genre of movie. All stories require internal consistency, and bad writing is bad writing.
1.8. Con: The movie stayed truthful to some ideas of the original trilogy which were lost in the prequel trilogy.
1.8.1. Pro: Bringing the idea of the Force back to its roots and going away from the overexplaining the prequels did should be considered a positive step for the franchise.
1.8.2. Pro: The Last Jedi's depiction of The Resistance as being a small group of Rebels in an asymmetric war returns to the original trilogy whereas the prequel trilogy featured two roughly equally matched participants.
1.8.3. Con: While technically accurate, this defence of The Last Jedi is not a particularly insightful one, as the survival of those original ideas are at least in part mandatory alongside the survival of the original characters associated with them.
1.8.4. Con: The prequels don't contradict the original themes of Star Wars so much as they try to add nuance to them. It adds more perspectives on the matter while finding the balance is still settled in Episode VI.
1.8.4.1. Pro: The [prequels](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-2BNdF_NCVQ) fit in with the themes of the original trilogy in many regards.
1.8.4.1.1. Pro: It's explained that the Jedi code has a critical role in both the original trilogy, as well as the prequels. It's deliberately written as flawed and dogmatic to challenge the main protagonists to develop a more nuanced individual perspective.
1.8.4.1.1.1. Pro: In the Original Trilogy, Luke manages to triumph over the dark side and turn Darth Vader. This is because he looks at the way of the Jedi, as Ben and Yoda teaches him, with critical eyes. This allows him to see where both of his mentors are flawed in their thinking, but also how to truly achieve, what it is that their side\(the light side\) desires.
1.8.4.1.1.1.1. Pro: Both Ben and Yoda push Luke to kill Vader, and manipulate him in order to achieve those ends. When Luke realises this, he decides to take his own path, and attempt to redeem Vader instead.
1.8.4.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Luke is never explicitly pushed to kill Vader; the word “confront” is used by Yoda. Obi-Wan implies that not killing Vader will ensure the Emperor’s victory, however. More discussion can be found here: [www.quora.com](https://www.quora.com/Did-Obi-Wan-and-Yoda-want-Luke-to-kill-Vader)
1.8.4.1.1.2. Pro: In the Prequels, Anakin is eventually driven to betray the Jedi Order and join the dark side. This is because he realises the flaws of the Jedi code, and how the Jedi's themselves, do not apply the code appropriately. This leads him to the revelation that the Jedi are corrupt, which eventually lures him to the promises of the dark side.
1.8.4.1.1.2.1. Pro: Several of the more notable Jedi, with Mace Windu in particular being a big example, betray the Jedi code in various ways. Among other things, the council asks Anakin to spy on Palpatine, and Windu gives in to rage and hatred when fighting Palpatine, attacking to kill, rather than defend and apprehend.
1.8.4.1.1.2.1.1. Con: It is not clear that he gives in to rage or hatred, but that his conclusion that Palpatine is Sith and beyond redemption, and cannot be safely apprehended, so has to die, might be flawed, and is certainly at odds with what Anakin wants. If anything, it is Anakin that is not thinking clearly, as he is thinking only of his own desires and not the bigger picture.
1.8.4.1.1.2.1.1.1. Con: While not explicitly clear, it is insinuated as Windu uses the reasoning of the Sith "Too dangerous to be kept alive" to break the Jedi code and attempt to kill an 'unarmed' man.
1.8.4.1.1.2.2. Con: Anakin's fall to the Dark side is arguably one of the worst piece of writing, directing and acting in Star Wars history and is as weak as, if not weaker and less believable than the entire of the Last Jedi.
1.8.4.1.1.2.2.1. Con: Luke milking an obese alien breast in close-up, subsequently drinking its green milk, and grimacing while it dribbles down his beard, is just one example of content in The Last Jedi which is more cringeworthy than the writing in the last act of Revenge of the Sith.
1.8.4.1.1.2.2.2. Con: An example of how the writing is worse in The Last Jedi is when Leia uses Force powers. Leia is expelled violently from the Raddus’ bridge via explosion de-pressurization, visibly has her skin freeze over in the cold void of space, inexplicably “flies” to catch up with the Raddus \(while it flees at top speed from the Executor, yet also appears stationary\) then re-enters the Raddus sans use of an airlock, and yet seems totally fine after receiving treatment for a short period of time.
1.8.4.1.1.2.2.3. Con: BB-8 is filled with coins by an alien who thinks he’s a slot machine, shoots said coins at guards via the use of an extendable coin chute, allowing Finn and Rose to escape from jail, and then saves Finn and Rose again by piloting an AT-ST walker — solo, and without the use of hands — whilst ripping the top off perfectly, so that everyone can see who is driving. This is just one example of content in The Last Jedi which is more cringeworthy than the writing in the last act of Revenge of the Sith.
1.9. Con: It has the best cinematography any Star Wars film ever had.
1.9.1. Con: The cinematographies of the Star Wars movies are products of their respective eras. It is therefore difficult to compare them with each other.
1.9.1.1. Con: This is not the case when comparing The Last Jedi to The Force Awakens however.
1.9.1.2. Con: Some choices about cinematography are clearly better than others. Whereas the original trilogy has a coherent look, the prequels [have been criticized](http://www.cinelinx.com/movie-stuff/item/6025-why-people-can-t-enjoy-the-vfx-in-the-star-wars-prequels.html) for the uneven quality and over-use of their digital effects as well as the [uncanny valley](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncanny_valley#In_computer_animation_and_special_effects) problem of their digital protagonists.
1.9.1.2.1. Con: Star Wars 1977 is shot to use the full width of the screen. The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi are shot to use only the centre of the screen which would make transfer to television easier. In this way the original trilogy do not have a coherent look.
1.9.1.2.2. Pro: The computer generated background used in the prequel trilogy create an uneven visual texture where character lighting and background lighting are often poorly matched contrasting with the original trilogy where practical sets provided appropriate lighting.
1.9.1.3. Pro: Star Wars 1977 comes at the very end of the Widescreen era of film making. The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi were shot when movies were concerned with the move to video. The Prequel trilogy were shot as movies began to use digital technology. These were three distinct times in cinematography.
1.9.2. Con: Numerous cinematographic choices have received a critical response, for example the surrealism of Leia floating through space and Rey's out-of-body experience.
1.9.3. Pro: The scene of the Mon Calamari cruiser crashing into Snoke's Star Destroyer is already a cinema highlight.
1.9.3.1. Pro: The silence focused our attention to Holdo's ultimate act of self-sacrifice from one whose entire life could be said was one of silent heroism standing beside Leia, stalwart and patient, trusting in something Greater than herself. In the end, joining that "something greater" in spectacular fashion.
1.9.3.2. Con: While the cinematography of this scene is excellent, it makes little sense in the context of the story and what we know about the Star Wars universe.
1.9.3.2.1. Pro: Even though it is highly effective, the tactic of crashing one ship at hyperspeed into another one had never been used before. It is hard to see why that would be the case.
1.9.3.2.1.1. Con: Not being used earlier might be taken into consideration if one begins to think Holdo as a proper character with human feelings and how long it would take for us to have a kamikaze idea out of the sudden and actually execute it.
1.9.3.2.1.1.1. Con: She had already resigned herself to death when she went onto the cruiser alone. At this point, any human who isn't emotionally weak \(as we can assume from a military officer\) would want to do help her friends as much as possible as she dies.
1.9.3.2.2. Pro: -> See 1.7.2.8.3.
1.9.4. Con: Some elements of the movie were visual failures.
1.9.4.1. Pro: Snoke looks like just about every CGI-based deformed villain in contemporary movies and lacks any of the visual uniqueness of Darth Vader or Emperor Palpatine.
1.9.4.2. Pro: The brief appearance of Yoda and the puppet used for that purpose [has been criticized](https://screenrant.com/star-wars-8-yoda-force-ghost-cgi-puppet/) as looking odd, stiff and out of place.
1.9.4.2.1. Con: The decision to make the appearance of Yoda resemble the character's appearance in the original trilogy is a nice callback to those movies and makes the appearance of the character more consistent as the older-looking puppet version of Yoda is the version of Yoda that died and became a force-ghost.
1.9.4.3. Con: Even if some of the elements of the movie weren't visually stunning, it is still superior to its predecessors as a whole.
1.9.5. Pro: The battle on Crait with the contrast between white desert and red salt is visually one of the most distinct of the saga.
1.9.5.1. Pro: The red salt was an excellent way to suggest the bloodiness of a battlefield, without showing blood and keeping it PG-13
1.9.6. Con: The showdown in the snow on Starkiller base during The Force Awakens is visually superior to any of the visual highlights during The Last Jedi.
1.9.6.1. Con: The hyperspace kamikaze scene was beautiful and stunning in equal measure.
1.9.6.2. Pro: There are shots and scenes in The Last Jedi that are individually superior to shots in The Force Awakens, but there are fewer such shots/scenes in The Last Jedi than The Force Awakens.
1.9.7. Con: Cinematography is wonderful, but it is not the sole factor in what makes a movie good, nor even the strongest factor.
1.9.7.1. Pro: Numerous movies that are generally perceived to be deeply flawed were complemented for their cinematography, for example Prometheus, Exodus: Gods and Kings, The Lone Ranger and The Great Gatsby.
1.9.7.1.1. Pro: Cinema is a collaborative art and cinematography, as with writing or editing, is not able to make a collaborative successful in itself but rather can as a part of a greater whole.
1.9.8. Pro: The ironing scene masterfully plays with audience's visual expectations. Instead of boring establishing shot, it establishes location while also providing subtle visual humour.
1.9.8.1. Con: The "iron" scene exemplifies one of the worst flaws of The Last Jedi as a whole: the director was far more concerned with putting his "stamp" on the film in terms of plot, tone, humor, and philosophy, than he was with maintaining consistency with either the rest of the saga films, or even the rest of his own film. The Last Jedi is riddled with tonally inconsistent humor undercutting the gravitas one may reasonably expect: The scene appears more similar to Spaceballs, a parody, than Star Wars.
1.9.9. Pro: The scene in Snoke's chamber displays a masterful use of colour and contrast in the set design and lighting.
1.9.9.1. Con: That scene — with its crisp contrasts and strong colour blocks — is a jarring contrast to the Star Wars aesthetic that normally eschews such a 'clean' staging and \(e.g. Palpatine's chamber\). It is more fitting of a Star Trek movie.
1.9.9.1.1. Con: Actually the stark, clean lines of the First Order are reminiscent of the same stark clean lines depicted of the Empire vs. the rag-tag, nerf-herding, garbage corellian heap flying, rebel scum... Another stark contract when comparing the Light with the Dark.
1.9.9.1.1.1. Pro: Notice also that the scene in question visually mirrors Rey's training but instead of natural island has backdrop of stark contrast already mentioned. Scene culminates with Kylo reaching to the ground to grab his lightsaber in identical shot as when Rey reached to the ground to sense the Force, visually representing the difference and similarity between Rey and Kylo. Such level of visual storytelling is indeed new and refreshing to Star Wars \(or any blockbuster franchise in general\).
1.10. Pro: Story-lines and characters set up in previous films were not treated with much respect.
1.10.1. Pro: Johnson's quick resolution, or even complete jettison, of elements introduced by his predecessor smacks of [design by committee](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Design_by_committee) \(a pejorative for a project with multiple designers but no unifying plan or vision\).
1.10.1.1. Con: It is less likely that "design by committee" would jettison plot elements because it is more likely that a committee would be retain some of the same creative talent. If anything "jettisoning" suggests that single creatives are being given creative freedom.
1.10.1.2. Pro: Colin Trevorrow left Episode 9 due to "creative differences", ostensibly due to personality clashes. Seeing as Trevorrow was in [full agreement with Mark Hamill](https://www.forbes.com/sites/danidiplacido/2017/12/28/mark-hamill-shouldnt-have-to-apologise-for-being-honest/#13565c03af86) for Luke Skywalker's arc before Johnson butchered it, and promised a "[profoundly satisfying answer](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2016/jan/14/star-wars-episode-ixs-colin-trevorrow-promises-rey-parent-reveal)" to Rey's lineage, it's possible he no longer wanted the burden of sticking the landing of the trilogy when there was nothing resembling an agreement on the story's itinerary.
1.10.1.2.1. Con: Having created [The Book of Henry](http://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/films/reviews/the-book-of-henry-review-reaction-colin-trevorrow-naomi-watts-jacob-tremblay-a7799316.html), one can have no faith in the abilities of Colin Trevorrow as a filmmaker and because of the woeful judgement on display in that movie one would seriously question what considers to be "profoundly satisfying". For more on Trevorrow's work on The Book of Henry [this video essay is very worth watching](https://subtletv.com/baaj2gW/The_Art_of_Storytelling_and_The_Book_of_Henry).
1.10.1.3. Pro: The absence of a preconcerted road map for the trilogy among its various writers \([1](https://twitter.com/rianjohnson/status/869011501889200128), [2](https://www.flickeringmyth.com/2017/12/rian-johnson-says-no-set-plan-star-wars-sequel-trilogy-defends-last-jedi-humour/), [3](http://www.denofgeek.com/us/movies/star-wars/269787/star-wars-the-identity-of-reys-parents-could-change-in-episode-ix), [4](http://birthmoviesdeath.com/2017/12/18/j.j.-abrams-just-pitched-star-wars-episode-ix-to-disney)\) enabled Johnson to make carte blanche decisions when it came to seemingly important plot threads.
1.10.1.3.1. Pro: As a result of Johnson's overindulgence, Episode 9 has little remaining mystery and speculation to drive the viewers' intrigue.
1.10.1.3.1.1. Con: In The Last Jedi Johnson has removed the superficial questions from the trilogy, such as "Who are Rey's parents", which will allow Abrams to focus on the questions of substance such as what Rey will do with the information she has learned. By allowing the character more time to process the revelations Johnson has ensured IX has more space to tell a satisfying story.
1.10.1.3.1.2. Con: In revealing mysteries in the middle movie of three Johnson is following the pattern established in The Empire Strikes Back which informs us that Darth Vader is Luke's Father allowing The Return of the Jedi to focus on characters dealing with this revelation.
1.10.2. Pro: Admiral Ackbar, whom many fans got to love for his role in the earliest movies, dies unceremoniously, without relevance for the story and in an off-hand manner.
1.10.2.1. Con: Akbar played hardly a significant role in the oldest movies either. He has barely any screen time and is famous only for a one-liner. Even in The Force Awakens he is merely an Easter Egg.
1.10.2.1.1. Con: The manner in which the love for Ackbar came about is irrelevant, he is an iconic character who is loved by almost all fans of the original trilogy and deserved better.
1.10.2.1.1.1. Con: Admiral Ackbar dies in a battle on the bridge of his ship shot by a no-name member of the other army. [Admiral Nelson](http://www.eyewitnesstohistory.com/lordnelson.htm) died in battle in a battle on the bridge of his ship, shot by a no-name member of the other army. Ackbar's death, in echoing that, is a fitting end.
1.10.2.2. Pro: This is especially striking as Ackbar could have easily given a satisfying send-off by having him play the role that was given to Admiral Holdo.
1.10.2.2.1. Con: Making Ackbar the commander would have derailed Poe's path towards leadership of the Resistance. He had never met Holdo but knew her reputation. His familiarity with Ackbar would have prevented him from mutiny and the brutal lesson he learned afterwards.
1.10.2.3. Con: Because he is an established character the audience are invested in Ackbar's death illustrates the seriousness of the Resistance's situation.
1.10.2.4. Con: The man who played him/voiced him died. That's why he was killed off early on. His importance in the saga and his death underscores the dire situation in which the Resistance finds itself.
1.10.2.4.1. Con: Death has [not bothered Disney before](http://uk.businessinsider.com/cgi-moff-tarkin-rogue-one-guy-henry-2017-1).
1.10.2.5. Con: War isn't pretty. Most people do not die "honourably". Especially when you're on a ship, the death is unlikely to be such.
1.10.2.6. Pro: Because Admiral Ackbar was not given the same [plot armour](http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/PlotArmor) handed out to the protagonists, he instead became a [Red Shirt](http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/RedShirt). Not only was this disrespectful to a character with cult renown, it also missed an obvious opportunity to provide an affective scene in the story.
1.10.3. Pro: Few fans cried out for Star Wars, its characters or storylines to be deconstructed, re-imagined, or otherwise 'fixed' beforehand. This is why the movie has been commonly met with surprise, shock, and anger.
1.10.3.1. Con: The relationship between creative works - even commercial ones such as Star Wars - is seldom that the creatives ask people what they want. That process is product development, not creative work, and traditionally Star Wars is a work of creativity.
1.10.3.2. Con: Movies series in which characters and storylines are not deconstructed, re-imagined or otherwise fixed, quickly fall into tedium which ill fits a series of movies as innovative as Star Wars.
1.10.3.2.1. Pro: [The Transformers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transformers_\(film_series\)) movies are an example of a film series which does not re-imagine its settings or characters, as is [The Fast and The Furious](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Fast_and_the_Furious).  Neither are held in as high esteem as Star Wars.
1.10.3.2.2. Pro: Much of [the criticism of The Hobbit](http://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/films/news/peter-jackson-admits-the-hobbit-was-a-shambles-i-just-starting-shooting-without-most-of-it-prepped-a6740136.html) was around returning characters and familiar storylines which were not re-imagined, fixed or reconstructed.
1.10.4. Pro: After their introduction during The Force Awakens, the Knights of Ren are completely ignored.
1.10.4.1. Pro: In The Force Awakens, it is revealed that the Knights of Ren are tied to the destruction of Luke's Jedi academy, and Kylo Ren is referred to as their leader. This makes the Knights of Ren important to the plot of the new trilogy as well as the background story of Kylo Ren's turn to the dark side.
1.10.4.1.1. Pro: A significant part of the plot of The Last Jedi is the backstory of what happened to Luke's Jedi academy and what turned Kylo Ren to the Dark side. This makes it particularly disappointing that the Knights of Ren didn't feature as that subplot was presented.
1.10.5. Pro: The identity of Rey's parents is teased throughout The Force Awakens as important for the new trilogy's story line. Yet the movie casts this question away as unimportant.
1.10.5.1. Con: The identity of Rey's parents are important both to the development of her character, and to the plot of the new Star Wars trilogy.
1.10.5.1.1. Pro: It is important for Rey to accept that she won't find some fairytale conclusion in her pursuit of finding the identity of her parents.
1.10.5.1.2. Pro: Rey's parents not being special is important to move away from the narrative that only those with the right bloodline can become heroes.
1.10.5.1.2.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.11.
1.10.5.2. Con: This has always been a point of the Star Wars movies: any individual can reach greatness, independent of where they come from and who their parents are. The decision to not care about Rey's origin only emphasizes this.
1.10.5.2.1. Con: Provided said individual is Force-sensitive, which has always been beyond the individual's control.
1.10.5.3. Con: This is a refreshing contrast to the other important Star Wars characters, for example Luke and Leia, most of which are significant and powerful as a product of their heredity.
1.10.5.4. Con: The force seems to desire a natural balance, whereby the existence of powerful Jedi or Sith cause their counterparts to come into existence.
1.10.5.4.1. Pro: Rey comes to that realization fast once she reaches out to the Force with Luke watching her. Luke even goes so far as to say that she "...didn't even try to fight the Dark..."
1.10.5.5. Con: We received no firm evidence that what Kylo said was true about her parents. The entire interaction between Rey and Kylo was a ruse put together by Snoke. It's entirely possible that Snoke fabricated this story for any number of reasons, or that Kylo made it up himself in order to manipulate Rey.
1.10.5.5.1. Con: IIRC correctly, Kylo asked her to confirm what she herself already knew.
1.10.6. Pro: The First Order recovering from their defeat in The Force Awakens to such a level that they now dominate The Resistance is too significant a development to be believably communicated during the opening text crawl. Other Star Wars movies use the text crawl as a device to create an [in medias res](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In_medias_res) situation \(evocative of how the series began\), not to downplay the impact of earlier plot points.
1.10.6.1. Con: In The Force Awakens, The Resistance destroys a single of the First Order's weapons as well as a few TIE fighters. There is no suggestion that that attack weakens the First Order fleet, so there is no recovery needed. The real world equivalent would be destroying a nuclear silo. This would have no impact on the at navy's ability to mount a conventional attack.
1.10.6.1.1. Con: The Star Killer base was as large as an entire planet, and manned presumably by millions of commanders, soldiers and engineers. The human resource loss, strategic loss and cost implications of losing a base than can wipe out entire solar systems, is staggering. The Empire was eventually defeated following the destruction of two death stars, so the destruction of a base many times larger and presumably more expensive would surely have at least bloodied The First Order's nose.
1.10.6.1.1.1. Con: All the commanders, soldiers and engineers involved in Star Killer based were, by definition, not involved in the rest of the First Order Fleet. Bloody nose is a good turn of phrase in this instance. It looks bad but it is not the result of death like a severed carotid artery would be.
1.10.6.2. Con: Star Wars movies in the past have frequently failed to showcase all significant plot developments on screen. An example would be the dissolution of the Senate in A New Hope.
1.10.7. Pro: Anakin Skywalker's legendary blue Lightsaber that served him during the Clone Wars, handed down to his son Luke and served him against the Empire, handed down to Rey and served her against the First Order, is first used as the butt of a cheap gag, then is finally and very visibly destroyed in the centre of the frame - just to make the point that this isn't your dad's Star Wars anymore.
1.10.7.1. Con: Since Luke first held the lightsaber in Star Wars 1977, the viewers have discovered that that same weapon was used to murder an entire tribe of Sandpeople and, following that, a room full of children. Considering the history of the weapon as the viewer now knows it it is appropriate to the viewer that the character discards it.
1.10.7.1.1. Con: The Tusken Raiders abducted Anakin's mother and tortured her so severely that she died from her injuries. Those who were not directly involved in this atrocity at the very least enabled it. The sand people do not recognise the concept of civil justice. Anakin's revenge, though certainly excessive, was understandable to anyone with a heart.
1.10.7.1.1.1. Con: Anakin is very clear in his description that he killed all the Sandpeople and even if we were to assume that Tusken children were involved in some way in the death of Shmi Skywallker, we cannot hold them responsible for they actions as they are under the age of criminal responsibility. Few people would ever sanction the murder of children for the crimes of their parents.
1.10.7.1.1.2. Con: The narrative is explicit in its condemnation of Anakin's actions. Few viewers would have thought that Anakin was exacting any type of justice or would see his revenge as anything other than an act of evil.
1.10.7.1.1.3. Pro: Anakin's excessive emotional responses could be explained by his strong connection to the Force and the pull of the dark side.
1.10.7.1.1.3.1. Pro: The Force appears to have a significant impact on emotional responses, which is most prominently seen when the 'Pull' of the dark side is discussed throughout canon in Star Wars.
1.10.7.1.2. Con: The slaughter of the younglings was the only incontrovertible occasion that the lightsaber was used for evil purposes. It has been used far more often in the name of good.
1.10.7.1.2.1. Con: Anakin's role in the Clone Wars was to fight for the Republic which would, by virtue of its success, become the Empire. It is an irony of Star Wars history which is appreciated by the characters that the Jedi were fighting on behalf of Darth Sidious during the Clone Wars. As a result of that the ends of Anakin's involvement in the Clone Wars cannot be said to have been incontrovertibly good.
1.10.7.2. Con: The lightsaber is given a lot of respect as the most important item in the movie, and to some extent, almost treated as a character.
1.10.7.2.1. Pro: The reforging of a sword is a part of [Arthurian legend](https://www.britannica.com/topic/Arthurian-legend), and is retold in [Tolkien's Lord of the Rings](http://lotr.wikia.com/wiki/Shards_of_Narsil). It is a contextually valid part of the narrative.
1.10.7.2.1.1. Pro: Rey's narrative arc is increasingly Arthurian. In The Force Awakens she pulls the lightsaber "from the stone" during the fight in the forest with Finn and Kylo Ren.
1.10.7.2.2. Pro: Rey begins by wanting to pass it and the responsibility to Luke. Luke discards it as he will do more harm than good if he picks it up, Rey grows and decides to train herself with it. It is used to defeat Snoke by Kylo, and it's destruction is the visual representation of the conflict between Rey and Kylo. Finally Rey possesses both halves of the Saber and will need to rebuild it anew.
1.10.8. Pro: Leia survives instead of getting a satisfying and relevant send-off. As Carrie Fisher is dead, this effectively relegates the character to background appearances in the future movies - which is anything but satisfying for such a major figure.
1.10.8.1. Pro: Even in The Last Jedi she barely plays a role anymore after Admiral Holdo takes over.
1.10.8.2. Con: Good point - except that one can also surmise that effectively ending her arc due to her death IRL might also leave something out and feel 'forced'. Her story line and impact was given full respect through to the end.
1.10.8.2.1. Pro: It is a very difficult situation, but Johnson's decision to retain Fisher's final work is agreeable. Reshoots would also have caused profound problems with the story, especially in relation to Poe and Holdo's characters.
1.10.8.3. Pro: Not only it would be an act of respect to end Leia's life on Star Wars on that moment, there is also weak evidence that Leia will be relevant for the next movie in the context of the narrative showed by the end of The Last Jedi.
1.10.8.3.1. Pro: Leia wasn't able to bring supporters to help the Resistance, so there's no reason to expect that she'll be important in the future. If she can't use her political influence to gather supporters, she will become nothing more than a symbolic commander. A role which will be easily out-shadowed by other leaders like Poe or Rey.
1.10.8.4. Con: While Carrie Fisher died, Leia has not and her role could be recast in the way that Richard Harris was replaced by Michael Gambon in an entirely respectful way in the Harry Potter series of films. In this way Leia could continue in the story.
1.10.8.4.1. Con: [Lucasfilm](https://futurism.media/carrie-fisher-will-not-be-in-star-wars-episode-9-lucasfilm-confirms-no-cgi-and-no-extra-the-last-jedi-footage) has confirmed that Carrie Fishcer will not feature in Episode IX of Star Wars, and that CGI won't be used to have the character make an appearance. While technically possible, the chance that Disney will recast Leia is highly unlikely.
1.10.9. Pro: The First Order previously destroyed Hosnian Prime, the capital of the New Republic. The Last Jedi totally ignores the repercussions of this atrocity for the other remaining Republic systems.
1.10.9.1. Pro: If Washington, New York, Chicago and Austin were all wiped off the map by a nuclear armed power, it seems incredible that the consequences would not be immediate and overwhelming. Instead, a ragtag band of Resistance members are all that seem to stand in the First Order's path towards domination.
1.10.9.1.1. Con: [Washington was destroyed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burning_of_Washington) in 1812 in a part of an extended war, albeit not in a nuclear way, and the consequences were not overwhelming.
1.10.9.1.2. Con: It is not clear that The Resistance are the only element standing against The First Order just that they are the only one the viewer sees. Indeed it is made clear in the narrative that there are other allies who could \(but do not\) come to The Resistance's aid.
1.10.10. Pro: Luke's character in The Last Jedi is inconsistent with his portrayal in previous installments.
1.10.10.1. Pro: When Luke Skywalker receives the light saber from Rey, he merely throws if over his shoulder. While funny on the surface, this hardly fits his role and relevance for the story.
1.10.10.1.1. Con: That single event laid out what the tone of the rest of the story would be like. Independent of our opinion, as it applies to the overall story as presented, it was key. Luke had abandoned the Force - and had even blocked himself off.
1.10.10.1.2. Con: While this scene is in some ways so surprising that it's taken for a joke, the act of throwing away the lightsaber is a way for Luke to make his stance clear without having to say a word. This is important to signal how Luke has abandoned his belief in the Jedi way.
1.10.10.1.3. Pro: This is also a direct continuation of the final scene from The Force Awakens, where Rey offers Anakin's Lightsaber to Luke- and Luke himself is visibly emotional that someone followed his map and found him. Going straight from that to him apathetically discarding the Lightsaber is a non-sequitur \(not meant as a compliment\).
1.10.10.1.3.1. Pro: Luke would not have accepted the lightsaber from Rey in the first place if he was only going to throw it away. The tone of Episode VII and the tone of Episode VIII were worlds apart, even though they were the same scene \(they even used some of the same footage\).
1.10.10.2. Pro: Rian Johnson makes one of the most iconic and virtuous heroes in all of cinema, unlikable. Provocative decisions and attitudes can be conveniently attributed to the long hiatus between Episodes 6 and 8, thereby shortcutting the evolution of the character.
1.10.10.2.1. Con: The character is not unlikable for all viewers.  Some may find a less virtuous, more cynical, Luke Skywalker to be a more sympathetic portrayal where others may prefer an unblemished Luke.
1.10.10.2.2. Pro: There is plenty of fractious history between Han Solo and Leia in the same interim, but both characters are still recognisable as themselves during Episode 7. Luke is unrecognisable to the point that he may as well be [Jake Skywalker](http://comicbook.com/starwars/2017/12/21/star-wars-the-last-jedi-mark-hamill-luke-skywalker/).
1.10.10.2.2.1. Con: Much of Star Wars is about looking at a character at one point in time and asking how they became the character at another. Three films were devoted to the question of how does the eight year-old blonde kid on Tatooine become Darth Vader. To ask the question how did the Farm Boy on a desert planet who can't swim become the misanthrope on an island surrounded by water is within the narrative conventions of Star Wars.
1.10.10.2.2.1.1. Con: The key absence is that of evolution. We 'see' Anakin grow up, join the Jedi, have doubts, and finally became a powerful Sith. We 'see' Luke the farm boy leave Tatooine, take on the Empire, and become a powerful Jedi. We do not 'see' Luke's evolution from Jedi to hermetic misanthrope. Therefore we have a large shortcut in the character's evolution. Abrams knew this and respectfully kept changes in Han and Leia's characters to a minimum.
1.10.10.2.2.1.1.1. Con: Up to Return of the Jedi Darth Vader's actions are depicted as evil yet we are told that there is "still good in him" The extrapolation between Vader and Anakin is assumed in Return of the Jedi and was between 1983 and 1999 yet is \(one might argue\) the point on which the plot of the trilogy rests. This establishes the both the fact that the change in character is the narrative crux of the series and that that change does not have to be shown.
1.10.10.3. Con: Character development, which is to say the change of characters, necessitates inconstancy by definition. If a character behaves in a constant and static fashion they are not developing.
1.10.10.4. Con: By removing Luke Skywalker from the narrative for an extended period of time the creatives avoid showing steps of Luke's character development which creates the contrast in his character.  Those steps are then filled in during the course of the narrative.
1.10.10.5. Pro: Given how Luke refused to kill Vader, and how important that moment was, it is totally out of character for him to consider killing Ben Solo.
1.10.10.5.1. Con: It is out of character for Luke to consider killing Ben Solo but the fact it is out of character is made clear in the narrative. Luke immediately regrets the brief moment because it is an out of character reaction born of his fear.
1.10.10.5.2. Con: During his fight with Vader, Luke nearly gave in to the temptations of the Dark Side and killed Vader. Luke overcomes temptation, but only just. It seems plausible that Luke could face a brief temptation to kill Ben Solo when learning of his strong pull towards the Dark Side.
1.10.10.5.3. Con: In my opinion he never considers to actually kill him.
1.10.10.5.4. Pro: Luke Skywalker was forced into a plot device in order to make Ben Solo evil. The reason why he became evil was shoehorned. Luke would've never assaulted anybody at night, let alone his own nephew just because he felt "darkness" in them. It's a person that believed there's still good left in Vader, the Sith lord, that was a murderer and comitted a genocide on billions.
1.10.10.5.4.1. Con: Luke did not enter the hut with the intention to do Ben harm. He wanted to probe Ben's thoughts to see how far the darkness had gone. It was in that instant that Luke considered it and then rejected that possibility, creating the regret and shame he shows in The Last Jedi.
1.10.10.5.4.2. Con: -> See 1.10.10.5.2.
1.10.10.5.5. Con: Luke admits to Rey that he had Never seen such power like Rey had with the Force - except within Ben Solo - and that he made the mistake of not fearing it then - but he fears it now with Rey. This means the level of force mastery Kylo and Rey can ultimately reach is beyond what anyone has seen to date. This is also a reason why his decision to save Vader was perhaps easier than it was to try and save Kylo.  Which, btw, he tried - for a long time "I thought i could turn him". He made a mistake...
1.10.10.5.5.1. Con: It's not beyond anything anyone has seen, but just beyond what Luke has seen so far. So it only says they are stronger than Vader, the Emperor, Yoda, Obi-Wan and the students he had in Luke's new Jedi school. Because these are the only Jedi Luke knows.
1.10.10.5.5.1.1. Con: To your point: It can be inferred that Luke read the Jedi books by Yoda's comment to him about how boring they were. This would mean he's also read and understood much more than what he's directly experienced.
1.10.10.5.5.1.1.1. Con: Yoda asks: "Did you read them?" and Luke only mumbles. This is meant to show that Luke didn't read them. He just came to the island to die. Not to study more.
1.10.10.5.6. Con: Luke never had a conflict of this type to resolve. All his life the Empire was just evil, the Sith in general were just evil, and he could feel the redemption in Vader through their connection. He's having doubts which leads to a moment of weakness.
1.10.10.5.6.1. Con: Luke's battle with Darth Vader in The Return Of The Jedi is just as trialing for Luke as the moment of weakness with Ben Solo.
1.10.10.5.6.1.1. Pro: He was striking with Vader with anger and hatred until he saw that robotic hand, a hand just like his own. With that he remembered he was fighting a person again, and he let his love overturn his hate. He let his hate go and Darth Vader turned, proving that someone who has committed many terrible acts, can still be redeemed. Even before this, Luke was considering joining the Imperial Academy in Ep IV.
1.10.10.5.7. Pro: Luke supposedly spends some time attempting to turn Kylo \(it is not clear if he actually had discussions with him about this, or was doing it surreptitiously\). When this fails, he draws his blade on a sleeping child, which is indeed out of character for the wise Jedi master. Surely, he would have excommunicated him before considering murder \(a heinous act of the dark side in of itself\).
1.10.10.5.7.1. Con: The conclusion of this is not that it is out of character for Luke, as a wise Jedi Master, to act in this way but rather that Luke is not a wise Jedi Master. Indeed Luke's reflection on his failure would seem to be that ultimately he could not be a wise Jedi Master. This echo's Obi-Wan's confession about attempting to train Anakin as Yoda trained him, and failing.
1.10.10.5.7.1.1. Con: Obi Wan was apparently in his late 30s when he took on Anakin, and didn't go through anything like the trials Luke had to face. Luke also appears to be at least 15 years older when he draws on Kylo.
1.10.10.6. Pro: This is exacerbated by the fact that Luke dies, slamming shut the door on any hope for a more optimistic turn in Episode 9 \(beyond a cameo as a Force ghost\). Only at the last were we reminded of the heroic Luke of old. We otherwise saw a bitter curmudgeon remain bitter and curmudgeonly throughout, at complete odds with any other depiction of the character.
1.10.10.7. Pro: The inability of Luke to deal with his emotions and disappointments in The Last Jedi doesn't fit in with the maturity, self-control and independence of the character in the original trilogy.
1.10.10.8. Pro: Even [Mark Hamill](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ypt6XAsrhPA) has come out and said that is not "[his](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9fWELFcwpNs)" [Luke](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gYIAVvNH8rE) [Skywalker](http://collider.com/the-last-jedi-mark-hamill-on-luke-skywalker/) and he [got through](https://www.syfy.com/syfywire/mark-hamill-explains-why-the-last-jedi-is-not-my-luke) [playing](http://www.denofgeek.com/us/movies/star-wars/269847/mark-hamill-on-the-last-jedi-he-s-not-my-luke) [the part](https://www.altpress.com/news/star_wars_mark_hamill_luke_skywalker_last_jedi/) by [rationalising](https://birthmoviesdeath.com/2017/12/21/not-my-luke-skywalker-mark-hamills-creative-differences-with-rian-johnson-o) it as a [different](https://www.thisisinsider.com/star-wars-the-last-jedi-mark-hamill-not-happy-with-luke-skywalker-2017-12) [character](https://www.express.co.uk/entertainment/films/895098/Star-Wars-8-Last-Jedi-Luke-Skywalker-Mark-Hamill-rift-Rian-Johnson), with a different name, in a different universe. From Mark Hamill of all people, that's pretty explosive.
1.10.10.8.1. Pro: Mark Hamill himself was disappointed in the [character arc](https://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/2017/05/mark-hamill-star-wars-nerd) given to Luke in The Last Jedi; seeing his deep cynicism with the Jedi order as not true to Luke's personality.
1.10.10.8.1.1. Con: As an actor Hamill is a part of Luke Skywalker but a character in a movie is enlivened by the writer in the first instance and the director later. While Hamill's views are interesting, ultimately Luke's personality is what the writer and director tell Hamill it is.
1.10.10.8.1.2. Con: Hamill contextualized his earlier statement later on by saying that he regards creative differences as a commonality and is still more than happy with the final movie.
1.10.10.8.1.2.1. Pro: [Mark Hamill](https://twitter.com/StupendousWave/status/945409809150500865): "I regret voicing my doubts & insecurities in public. Creative differences are a common element of any project but usually remain private. All I wanted was to make good movie. I got more than that- \@rianjohnson made an all-time GREAT one!". \(Dec 26. 2017\).
1.10.10.8.1.3. Con: In the link above: take note of the attitude Luke has concerning his contrarian opinion: "Hamill noted that he has the utmost respect for Johnson and The Force Awakens’s director, J.J. Abrams, and is pleased with how both films have turned out. He just wanted to be heard...." It would be nice if this was also something we all modeled as fans.
1.10.10.8.1.4. Pro: Mark Hamill is naturally one of the greatest authorities on the character of Luke Skywalker. His numerous and strongly worded objections to Rian Johnson's characterization of Luke, while certainly not authoritative to the point of representing the final word on the matter, should be considered worthwhile condemnations.
1.10.10.8.1.4.1. Con: -> See 1.10.10.8.1.2.
1.10.11. Pro: Opportunities for great emotional resonance by mining and capitalizing on events in the original trilogy were squandered utterly.
1.10.11.1. Pro: There was no outward expression of mourning for Han Solo's death among the characters who knew him most closely.
1.10.11.1.1. Con: There is a very obvious moment where Luke Skywalker discovers Han Solo is dead and looks upset. He then goes on to try be on his own only to be pursued by Rey.
1.10.11.2. Pro: Notwithstanding the unlikelihood of it still being operational, Luke could have lifted his X-wing ship out of the water, and used it to travel to Crait. This would have been a very powerful moment of showing that Luke had achieved the level of Force mastery achieved by his greatest teacher, Yoda, since one of the best scenes in Episode V was Yoda lifting Luke's X-wing out of the swamp. As it is, Rian Johnson couldn't even be bothered to follow through on foreshadowing in his own movie.
1.10.11.2.1. Con: Except that the X-Wing was in pieces. The wing was the door to Luke's hut.
1.10.11.2.2. Con: This was intentional, the foreshadowing was set up to build that expectation in order to help you believe that Luke was really there at the end, and that we just didn't get to see that moment.
1.10.11.2.3. Con: This would have been heavily criticized as well as "just copying the old trilogy" like The Force Awakens did.
1.10.11.3. Con: The emotional resonance created by [intertextualty](http://www.slashfilm.com/intertextuality/) would seem, in modern culture, to be a diminishing return. There was a resonance created in the moment that Qui-Gon introduces Obi-Wan to Anakin knowing that one will, in the end, kill the other. However the repeating those moments decreases their impact. When Yoda says bye to Chewbacca in Revenge of the Sith the reaction of most seems to be a vague shrug of the shoulders. Rather than being squandered those opportunities were avoided.
1.10.12. Pro: Hux is made to look like an idiot in all his scenes, something that is not plausible for the supreme commander of a massive Empire.
1.10.12.1. Pro: General Hux is introduced in The Force Awakens as the equivalent to Grand Moff Tarkin from the old movies: a devoted, skillful and merciless commander. Yet The Last Jedi turns him into a incompetent and screaming caricature for comedic purposes.
1.10.12.1.1. Con: He may hold that title - but the reason he holds that position is explained by Supreme Leader Snoke himself. In that explanation, the words devoted and skillful were never used. He was a useful puppet and someone that was endlessly easy to manipulate, per Snoke.
1.10.12.1.1.1. Con: Yet this was stated in The Last Jedi, not in The Force Awakens. Each movie portrayed different character, and Hux from The Last Jedi was just a comedian. Also, it doesnt make really sense to have an idiot as a supreme leader of your navy. This was unimportant change to a character, that was really good in The Force Awakens.
1.10.12.2. Con: Partially true - there are many people in powerful leadership positions that are undeserving and are at times outright dangerous - yet there they are. General Hux's position and a reason for his 'existence', as Snoke mentioned, is as a tool that is easily manipulated due to that self same character flaw you point out. He is 'an idiot' - but an easily manipulated one at that.
1.10.12.3. Pro: His behavior is unthinkable awkward and bizarre on the first minutes of The Last Jedi while talking to Poe. His attitudes during the "prank call" are almost insane. Keep in mind that he was commanding the Imperial fleet on a mission that was intended to give the final blow to the Resistance.
1.10.12.4. Pro: Tarkin, or any of the original Empire's generals were all depicted as professional and at least competent.
1.10.12.4.1. Pro: Not only professional and competent, but all were believable in a Star Wars reality. The actor portraying Hux did a good job, however the character was created by screenwriters as a generic supporting sci-fi army commander villain rather than as an officer who actually has the dignity and respect expected from a First Order officer.
1.10.12.5. Pro: In Hux's backstory it is revealed that he was mentally and physically abused by his father. To reproduce such conflict in a joking manner is deeply uncomfortable.
1.10.12.5.1. Con: Hux's father ran the Academy \(during the civil war\) and was responsible for the man Hux was in TLJ. His Hitler-esque portrayal when addressing the First Order at Starkiller Base points more towards a fanatical psychosis and a maniacal need for revenge against the Republic and his thirst for power. Recall the short scene where he tries to insinuate to Kylo Ren that "he's not the boss" after the death of Snoke. Once a tool, still a tool - \(force choke\)..."Long live the the Supreme Leader!".
1.10.13. Pro: The movie's subversion of established plot lines and characters led to an unnecessary split in the fan base among those who like this approach and those who don't.
1.10.13.1. Con: This discussion has taken place for every movie since Episode IV.
1.10.13.2. Con: Discussions take place because people have different opinions. Claiming that there is something wrong with the movie because people discuss it is in no way constructive.
1.10.14. Con: -> See 1.10.7.2.
1.10.15. Pro: The main antagonist, Snoke, is a cardboard character. He hasn't a decent background story and is too powerful. He isn't very charismatic and his motives are flat.
1.10.15.1. Con: Do we really need a background for him? One of the greatest things about the original trilogy is how it plunked viewers down in the middle of a galaxy with history, but only explained what was necessary to the story. When the prequels began explaining things that weren't essential to the plot, the suspension of disbelief vanished. Ex. midichlorians
1.10.15.1.1. Con: We had one of the most memorable scenes on sci-fi movies when we finally discovered what was the true relation between Luke and Vader in Episode V, and that was a situation when we stopped to watch only lasers and cool starships and had to visualize a more particular explanation about characters.
1.10.15.2. Pro: Snoke, after being built up as a formidable villain in The Force Awakens, dies through unbelievable incompetence and without his history, goals and strange looks ever having been explained.
1.10.15.3. Con: Snoke was, in retrospect, always intended to be such a cardboard character though — he was a mere foil for Kylo's character progression and a deliberate contrast to the Vader/Emperor dynamic of the originals; as shown by his death in this movie rather than in the next one.
1.10.15.3.1. Con: The death of Emperor Palpatine had a heavier emotional impact on the audience. The character was more fleshed out than Snoke and because his demise had a much better timing as it happened at the end of the trilogy. Meanwhile, Snoke's death came halfway through the new trilogy, giving it an anti-climactic feeling for the audience.
1.10.15.4. Con: His background story and power are sure to be explained in the expanded cannon for those that desire it; but his role in The Force Awakens and The Last Jedi is perfectly suited to the narratives needs of those films that establish, and then break, our expectations of Kylo Ren.
1.10.15.4.1. Con: It is highly unlikely his backstory will ever be addressed in film as the franchise is headed into completely new territory. New canon books are being used to compliment, rather than explain, many backstories. Additionally, comic books are being written merely to entertain. Post Return of the Jedi material for some reason is a black hole that Disney is unwilling to touch.
1.10.15.4.1.1. Con: The Aftermath series delve deeply into what happened in the immediate aftermath of the demise of the Emperor and Darth Vader.
1.10.15.5. Con: While pandering to fan theories and expectations about world building may keep them happy, overt exposition rarely makes for a compelling movie \(as was demonstrated in many of the prequel's scenes\).
1.10.15.6. Pro: Snoke's abilities seem on par with that of the Emperor, but he lacks a master or a timeline where it makes sense that he is so powerful so soon after the downfall of the Empire.
1.10.15.6.1. Pro: This is why the popular fan theory of [Snoke being a reincarnation of Darth Plagueis the wise](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vd_8-NCN5CU&) made a great deal of sense at the time \(though it was admittedly denied before the movie's release\). He could manipulate the Force to create or sustain life, and you assume would need a long time to perfect the technique to resurrect himself, explaining his frail, malformed appearance.
1.10.15.7. Con: This fault lies largely with J.J. Abram's love of [mystery box storytelling](https://6thfloor.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/06/02/whats-in-j-j-abramss-mystery-box/) and choices made in The Force Awakens. All the unexplained narratives that were created there setup an impossible task for the latter movies to explain in a compelling manner.
1.10.15.8. Con: Snoke could be interpreted as yet another piece of "Old" Star Wars that The Last Jedi does away with. He's a simple one dimensional character, like the Emperor. He stands in the way of the story turning to more shades of morality than just black and white.
1.10.15.9. Pro: In keeping with the theme of subverting fans' expectations, Rian Johnson kills Snoke without fanfare. But without elaborating upon the mystery surrounding Snoke's identity, his entire impact on this saga is underwhelming
1.10.15.9.1. Con: The Emperor of the Original Trilogy was killed off before elaborating on him much more than Snoke. Emperor Palpatine did however get a much larger role afterwards in the Prequels, implying that Snoke may yet get elaborated upon.
1.10.15.10. Con: Snoke is not the main antagonist, Kylo Ren is, just as Darth Vader is the main antagonist in the original trilogy and not the Emperor. The Emperor is given almost as little back story as Snoke, and was killed almost as unceremoniously, it just all happened in the 3rd film instead of the 2nd.
1.10.15.11. Con: It is a merit to The Last Jedi that Snoke was cast off as unimportant, as it suits the trend of the movie in which older figures of power give way to younger people with new ideas and different goals.
1.10.16. Con: The Last Jedi spoke to all the lore that Star Wars fans asked for while expanding on the universe and the force as a whole.
1.10.16.1. Con: -> See 1.10.11.1.
1.10.16.2. Con: No, it did not. This movie felt more like an insult to fans of the EU than anything else. It even serves as a smack in the face to those who have consumed the other canon media with blatant disregard for established lore.
1.10.17. Pro: Beyond the obvious, even Chewbacca's character is weakened in the 'Disneyification' of Star Wars. He goes from near-savage, willing to destroy a droid for beating him in a game, to befriending useless creatures \(Porgs\).
1.10.17.1. Pro: On the Falcon, R2 plays Chewbacca at Dejarik, and upon it becoming evident he is losing Chewbacca roars and Han explains that Chewbacca has been known to pull peoples' arms out of their sockets for beating him.
1.10.17.1.1. Con: Han is [making fun of his passengers](https://www.kialo.com/\[spoilers\]-is-the-last-jedi-one-of-the-weakest-star-wars-movies-so-far-7055/7055.0=7055.1+7055.48+7055.448-7055.656) because he thinks they are inexperienced in the ways of the Galaxy and would not recognise Wookiees as a civilised race. Chewbacca is not a psychopath in Star Wars 1977 nor does he seem to have an especially bad temper or resort to acts of violence. He is called a "walking carpet" at one point but does not react to this insult with aggression. Han is making a joke.
1.10.17.2. Con: It is very clear to anyone watching Star Wars 1977  that Han Solo is messing with the passengers when he says that Chewbacca will harm them for beating him at Dejarik. Throughout the interaction up to that point Han thinks Luke, Ben and the droids are a couple of hicks from a backwater and he is making fun of them. Chewbacca looks like an animal but every single mention of Wookiee culture shows them as a civilised race with an advanced culture and not at all savage.
1.10.18. Con: Numerous characters became more relevant to the plot than in previous films and were treated with more respect than previous films had.
1.10.18.1. Pro: Using the puppet version of Yoda that died in Return of the Jedi was especially respectful and meaningful. His character was exactly who he always was, rhetorically whacking Luke on the head to get him to think straight about the Jedi, and to let go of his failure and to learn from it.
1.10.18.2. Pro: R2's role was similar in size, but more poignant and relevant in The Last Jedi than the The Force Awakens. His role was key to getting Luke to change his mind about helping Rey, this made him more relevant and was nothing but respectful.
1.10.18.3. Pro: Leia's role was larger than anyone expected in this film, and her character was deepened by her ability to use the force to save herself.
1.10.18.3.1. Con: The scene in which Leia uses the force is seemingly over the top. The way in which the scene is shown and shot makes the scene appear to be more ridiculous than having immense depth.
1.10.18.4. Pro: Poe's role had a nice arc to it where he was both more important to the plot than the last film and grew as a member of the resistance.
1.10.18.5. Con: Chewbacca was reduced to a Porg's sidekick, having made a far more significant contribution to The Force Awakens.
1.10.18.5.1. Con: There is a scene with Chewbacca as the pilot of the Falcon. Previously Han was pilot and Chewie was sidekick. So the porg became the sidekick to Chewie.
1.10.18.5.2. Con: Chewbacca's role in The Force Awakens was more significant but it was only ever in connection to Han Solo. Chewie is Han's sidekick and his increased narrative focus was because of Han's narrative focus. Chewbacca did not have his own plotline nor did he have a narrative arc. His reduced role in The Last Jedi would seem to be a result of Han Solo's absence.
1.10.18.6. Con: Finn's role and importance to the main plot is diminished in The Last Jedi, having been arguably the leading male role in The Force Awakens.
1.10.18.6.1. Pro: Finn was a strong character in "The Force Awakens", but in this movie his character fails at every single thing he tries to do. The audience is told to love him and cheer for him in "The Force Awakens", and went into this movie seeing him as a hero, but instead he is turned into a poor, tragic-comic figure by the end and audiences are left wondering whether we are supposed to be cheering for him or not. He's either a fool, incredibly unlucky, or the worst written character in history.
1.10.19. Pro: Even more so than during The Force Awakens, Rey is skilled to an extent that is not credible or interesting, given her relative lack of training and / or experience.
1.10.19.1. Con: Rey being able to defeat Kylo Ren has more to do with Kylo Ren not fighting at full power than Rey being extremely powerful.
1.10.19.1.1. Pro: The point of Kylo Ren's character is that he's conflicted, irrational, over-emotional, and doesn't measure up to his hero \(Darth Vader\). This makes him unable to focus both on fully drawing on the power of the Force, and to focus adequately during lightsaber combat.
1.10.19.2. Con: As opposed to heroes such as Luke and Leia, Rey isn't a "chosen one" or destined to be great. Her parents were nobodies.
1.10.19.2.1. Con: This actually makes it worse in some ways. Anakin was the supposed chosen one, with off the charts power. His own children would supposedly be more powerful still. Rey, on the other hand, is more powerful because...the writer said so. She is made to be more powerful than the already overpowered bloodline.
1.10.19.2.1.1. Con: Anakin and Rey both represent the Force meddling with the lives of people in an attempt to bring balance.
1.10.19.3. Con: It is clear that Rey is drawn to the dark side at different points in the film, and misunderstands certain aspects of the force before being taught by Luke.
1.10.19.3.1. Con: She never gives in the way Luke did in the Dagobar Cave, or even his burst of rage in RotJ. She is drawn, but never gives in. She passes the tests Luke failed. With less training.
1.10.19.4. Con: Why is her natural adeptness unrealistic though? It would make sense that in all the universe, there would be some people who would have a natural power with the force that exceeded that of Luke Skywalker and other masters. It is repeatedly stated that her 'raw power' has never been seen before by Luke or Yoda \(except in Ben\). There is no reason why introducing a character that exceeds previous characters in her abilities should be considered unrealistic.
1.10.19.4.1. Con: Anakin was supposedly created by the Force and was "The Chosen One" with an off the charts force power never seen before. His children would be likewise powerful. Contrast Rey, with supposedly no-body parents and no bloodline, who is more powerful because... the writers say so. That is what makes it unrealistic. She's more powerful than the Chosen One and his Bloodline just "Because".
1.10.19.5. Pro: Rey is destined to be great for the simple reason she is so naturally adept in the Force that she requires no training to defeat Kylo - who is supposed to be her equal in the Dark Side of the Force \(and who has been trained to near completion by both Luke Skywalker and Snoke\).
1.10.19.6. Pro: Rey has even interpreted as fitting the archetype of Mary Sue: a character who is idealized and strong in ways that are unreasonable or unfitting.
1.10.19.6.1. Pro: Some believe Rey is a [Mary-Sue](https://futurism.media/is-rey-a-mary-sue). Though [fans are polarised](https://www.reddit.com/r/StarWars/comments/5ofkog/why_is_rey_considered_a_marysue/) on the [issue](https://www.themarysue.com/lets-talk-about-rey-and-rey-backlash/) and it is a matter of personal opinion, the unique extent of criticism by fans is testament to these problems and it is to an extent not seen by any other character in the entire series \(or most other sci-fi shows or movies\). [Mary Sue](https://www.reddit.com/r/StarWars/comments/7scerk/a_mature_study_of_rey_as_a_mary_sue/) characters tend to be fairly [unrelatable](https://www.reddit.com/r/StarWars/comments/7knkb5/rey_is_a_mary_sue/) and [uncompelling](https://www.quora.com/Is-Rey-from-The-Force-Awakens-a-Mary-Sue). This has been one of the biggest criticisms levelled at the character.
1.10.19.6.1.1. Con: There is nothing wrong with strong, skilled, independent, leading women as heroines. They can make just as compelling and interesting characters as a male protagonist while also providing a good role model.
1.10.19.6.1.1.1. Con: Many feel that the number of strong female leads in The Last Jedi, and Rey in particular, is to push some sort of social agenda \(a claim also levelled at the movie in a number of other areas\) to the detriment of the movies story and characters. It is possible to have strong, compelling female main characters without making them Mary Sues. The fact Rey is accused of being one may indicate that she is poorly conceived and written, rather than a sexist attitude.
1.10.19.6.1.1.2. Con: By potentially making her a Mary Sue, the writers actually undermine her character in terms of credibility and likeability. She is harder to relate to. This actually damages the idea and concept of a strong female lead and undercuts it due to bad writing of the character which damages the message with a poorly written portrayal. It is possible to write and be a strong female without being a Mary Sue.
1.10.19.6.1.2. Pro: The unique extent of criticism by fans is testament to these problems. The fact that the criticism can even be levelled that she is a Mary Sue is fairly damning or critical and may speak to or of bad writing and lazy character and plot development. There would be ways to achieve the character and storyline without this criticism.
1.10.19.6.1.2.1. Con: Many of the people who criticise Rey as a Mary Sue, may do so primarily because they're not comfortable with a female protagonist, not necessarily because the writing is lazy.
1.10.19.6.1.2.1.1. Pro: Many of the claims that Rey is a Mary Sue have been attributed, rightly or wrongly, to sexism and men being afraid and intimidated by strong, dominant female characters. They feel threatened by the number of strong female leads in The Last Jedi. The fact that many feel Rey is the main character and main hero/heroine, over older more established characters just pushes this further.
1.10.19.6.1.2.1.1.1. Con: -> See 1.10.19.6.1.1.1.
1.10.19.6.2. Pro: Rey fits numerous characteristics that are commonly associated with the archetype of a Mary Sue: she has power to a degree that is hard to explain in the context of the story, is morally righteous, universally popular and without relevant flaws.
1.10.19.7. Pro: Rey's prodigiousness should not be estimated relative to her predecessors, but to her preeminent arch-rival: Kylo Ren. Kylo has been trained to near completion by both Luke Skywalker and Snoke, yet still cannot command anything close to a significant victory over Rey. Regardless of Kylo's temperament, his far superior education in the Force should give him an edge. It could be argued Rey has not 'earned' her successes over him so far, which only weakens their conflict.
1.10.19.8. Pro: A hero suffering a significant defeat \(and returning stronger for it\) is an affective dramatic device- and is indeed a central theme that concerns many characters in this movie. Yet, Rey is still to suffer anything close to such a defeat, and there rarely seem to be negative consequences to her actions. This is a tedious aspect of the character.
1.10.20. Pro: -> See 1.10.18.6.
1.11. Con: All the characters have great arcs and they are all intertwined with each other. Rey learns to trust her inner self, Luke learns to be there for the Resistance. Poe learns to be a leader. Finn learns to act selflessly. Holdo learns to be a hero like Leia.
1.11.1. Pro: "All his life, he has looked away, to the future, and never his mind on where he was!" Yoda's assessment of Luke's ability/character is derogatory. Additionally, Yoda says it's hard for a Master when their student no longer needs them. As such, Luke turns it into a strength in masterful form. This is wonderful character development and a great plot twist!
1.11.2. Pro: Luke matures significantly during The Last Jedi.
1.11.2.1. Con: Luke did not mature. He regressed, from being a brave optimist to a cowardly, obstinate pessimist, wallowing uselessly in despair after abandoning his friends and family to their fates, which are being brought about by a devil of his own devisement \(Kylo Ren\). He even wastes his ability to help his sister and the Rebellion in the future, by giving his life for the chance to taunt Kylo Ren in an immature fashion, as no more than a single-use diversionary tactic.
1.11.3. Con: When discussing character arcs, the last moment in said arc is the most important as it leaves and embodies the message. Going through with this final act is a fundamental core of character writing. In the case of Fin, they ignore this rule in a way that undermines the impact of his character arc. They do this by having Rose save him, eliminating his moment of self sacrifice thus lessening the impact of his arc.
1.11.3.1. Con: Finn's character arc runs from his introduction in The Force Awakens to the end of IX. He has not had the last moment of his arc.
1.11.3.1.1. Con: By the last moment of character arc, I am referring to it in the enclosed story of this movie.
1.11.3.1.1.1. Con: As The Last Jedi is the middle of a the series of movies announced as a trilogy there is no reason to assume a character's arc would be contained within a single chapter of that trilogy.
1.11.3.2. Con: Rose saving Finn from self-immolation is the end of the middle chapter of his character arc away from being a Stormtrooper in The Force Awakens and towards \(we assume\) being fully realised in IX. In his suicide attack he is reverting to Stormtrooper thinking assuming individual life has no worth against a collective requirement. Rose saves him he learns that his that the Resistance will always value his life over the utility of sacrificing his life.
1.11.4. Con: They did not give Han Solo a funeral or service of any kind, nor did they show Luke or Leia affected by it in any major way. These character arcs are inconsistent and incomplete.
1.11.4.1. Con: -> See 1.10.11.1.1.
1.11.4.2. Con: The Last Jedi picked up almost immediately after Star Killer Base was destroyed. The remainder of the movie was spent trying to survive the First Order's pursuit. There wasn't an appropriate time to hold a funeral for someone who hadn't been a part of the resistance for very long.
1.11.5. Con: -> See 1.10.10.8.1.
1.11.6. Con: Poe's learning to be a leader, and Holdo's \(eventual\) reveal of her heroism were acts artificially constructed by an awkward plot. If Holdo just told Poe her plan in the first place it could have all been avoided without any downsides for the Resistance.
1.11.6.1. Con: -> See 1.7.4.13.1.1.
1.11.7. Pro: Rey's journey in the film is an excellent story in showing how she has her own agency and does not need to conform to the will of others; be that Luke or Kylo. She plots her own path to power as a Jedi and establishes a break from the past.
1.11.7.1. Con: In other words, she did the exact same thing Luke did in the original trilogy, basically undermining his character while at the same time trying to copy it. The core message of finding one's own path is still good, they use this message from Rey to try and break away the exact same message from Luke. "Even though Luke did this before me you should ignore that because he's a failure now and I'm the new lead." is basically the message they are sending to long time fans.
1.11.8. Pro: In outlining the motivations and choices of various Resistance characters the film better explains how and why people join a rebellion against all odds, rather than relying on grand narratives of good and evil as the original trilogy did.
1.11.8.1. Con: -> See 1.7.5.1.
1.11.8.2. Con: Rogue One: A Star Wars Story and Star Wars Rebels achieved this in a far deeper and more interesting way than The Last Jedi was able to.
1.11.8.2.1. Pro: The stories of Jyn Erso and Cassian Andor show the motivations for sacrificing their lives for the rebellion and do so in a realistic manner, rather than the tripe about "hope" we are given in The Last Jedi.
1.11.8.2.1.1. Con: Jyn Erso specifically states the importance of "hope" in her decision making.  She states "Rebellions are built on hope".
1.11.9. Pro: The Last Jedi has, much more than other Star Wars films, an incredibly diverse cast in terms of their identities and character arcs. In giving all of these characters time it creates a greater and more varied set of stories that are more likely to resonate with the audience.
1.11.9.1. Con: Diversity in itself is not a positive. This is evident from the fact that the two characters who have been hailed as new heroes of diversity - Rose and Holdo - are considered by many as the film's worst characters, both making incomprehensible decisions and having no interesting character development.
1.11.9.1.1. Con: The statement presented to support the proposition that [Diversity in itself is not a positive](https://www.kialo.com/argument/7055.454), does not support that position. That the characters are well or poorly written has no impact on the merits of diversity.
1.12. Pro: The new trilogy's biggest strength is the chemistry between the new cast of characters, and The Last Jedi takes them all away from each other for effectively the entire very long film.
1.12.1. Con: Having the characters separated in The Last Jedi illuminates how great they were together. This separation creates a richer appreciation for the chemistry we saw in The Force Awakens and what we'll experience in the film \(Ep.IX\) to come. When the new trilogy concludes, we'll appreciate the variety much like we do with Luke, Leia and Solo in the original trilogy.
1.12.2. Pro: In addition, the new characters have to share screen time with \(and often play second fiddle to\) an additional wave of new characters.
1.12.3. Con: It is reasonable to assume that director Rian Johnson did this by design to prevent Finn as a character from using his relationship with Rey as a crutch, since it was so strong and worked so well in The Force Awakens.
1.12.3.1. Pro: In The Force Awakens, Finn appears to be completely driven by his desperate desire to escape The First Order, and his feelings for Rey.
1.12.4. Pro: The entire Canto Bight story would have worked better had Poe gone with Finn and Rose, and it would have allowed us to see Finn and Poe's chemistry on screen and avoided the pointless mutiny attempt.
1.12.4.1. Con: Rian Johnson [chose](https://www.themarysue.com/) to pair Rose with Finn for the Canto Bight sequence because it didn't work well with Poe being paired with Finn instead. In his opinion, the two would haven gotten along too well, which would have made for an uninteresting plot.
1.12.4.1.1. Pro: “He’s a hero, but he has to learn how to become a leader... Leia needs him to mature beyond kind of brash heroics into someone who can actually take on the mantle of leading this Resistance.” - [Rian Johnson](https://www.themarysue.com/)
1.12.4.1.2. Con: It would appear from the sources available that it [is/was boring](https://screenrant.com/star-wars-last-jedi-finn-poe-dameron-canto-bight/) is Rian Johnson's opinion only. To the best of available data, no test audiences saw that \(and we would assume if they had, we would have heard about it\), so it's just one persons opinion, someone whose opinions have been controversial and polarising in the past.
1.12.5. Con: By separating Rey and Finn, we got to see Rey and Kylo's chemistry, which is a very strong and rewarding new element that wasn't given enough screen time in The Force Awakens.
1.12.5.1. Con: While agreeing that Ray and Kylo's chemistry is a very strong and rewarding new element, it is misleading to imply that just because it was given more screen time in The Last Jedi, it was given enough screen time.
1.12.6. Con: Almost any version of The Last Jedi would have had to take Rey away from the rest of the cast for a significant portion of the film so that she could train with Luke, just like Luke did with Yoda in Empire Strikes Back.
1.12.6.1. Pro: The chemistry between Rey and Luke was one of the movie's stronger positives. So while her good chemistry with the other characters was absent for large parts of the movie, it was replaced by her excellent chemistry with Luke.
1.13. Pro: The progressive cultural themes \(and adult level of drama\) used to be secondary to a mythology/fairytale for the whole family, but The Last Jedi just threw away that fairytale heart.
1.13.1. Pro: The tonally jarring inserts of humour notwithstanding, the Last Jedi is the most relentlessly downbeat of the Star Wars movies. Its imbalance away from hope and towards despair could be off-putting and upsetting to younger audience members.
1.13.1.1. Con: Revenge of the Sith is a more downbeat movie than The Last Jedi. We watch the characters get commit infanticide, die in child berth, get zapped out of windows having had their limbs cut off and generally not have a great time of things.
1.13.2. Pro: Some of the events in the movie were overtly politicized with respect to the present day. These didn't really serve the plot and instead broke the illusion of Star Wars being a unique universe quite different to our own.
1.13.2.1. Con: Art makes statements. People add meaning. Ex: When Luke encounters Ben and Yoda in their homes, he finds these Jedi masters living austere lives, close to the land. When Luke must destroy the Death Star with one shot, Ben’s voice encourages him to shut off his targeting computer, relying on his own senses, his intuition, and his connection to the Force to do the job. It's not that hard to find countless other examples. Art is.
1.13.2.1.1. Pro: This is nothing new for the franchise. The Empire's marriage of politics with military might has been interpreted as a critical depiction of America's military-industrial complex; the official website even [describes](http://www.starwars.com/databank/galactic-senate) the Clone Wars as the rise of the military-industrial complex.
1.13.2.1.2. Con: The examples provided could be interpreted as Luddite or Taoist, neither of which are overtly political subjects \(as per the original claim\).
1.13.2.1.2.1. Con: Luddism is a political philosophy and including Luddite characters in a narrative is politicisation of that narrative.
1.13.2.2. Pro: The Canto Bight subplot, while explicitly critical of war profiteering, conveys more subtly an anti-1%, even anti-Capitalist subtext, and a destructive climax with overtones of revolution that might satisfy far-left tastes.
1.13.2.2.1. Con: Star Wars has never been pro-communism. It has targeted corporate greed and fascism, but has never shown any support for communism. Now I will admit that people may be reading to much into this but it is easy to see why there does seem to be an anti-capitalist sentiment due to recent events.
1.13.2.2.1.1. Pro: Star Wars does not support communism. Of [Marx's ten planks of The Communist Manifesto](http://laissez-fairerepublic.com/tenplanks.html) Star Wars could only be said to be in favour a single one - the abolition of children's factory labour - which is a commonly held view over the Western world.
1.13.2.2.2. Con: It's unclear how this is a negative element of the movie. Just labelling a subplot as having 'far-left' sentiments does not negate the argument that the film presents for its political undertones. People enjoying extravagant leisure activities that are paid for by war-mongering are surely gaining from the exploitation of those beneath them, which is understandably outrageous to Finn and Rose.
1.13.2.2.2.1. Pro: If Star Wars has a political thread running through it then it has always been to the left. The overthrow of the state because of the state's misuse of power are what IV - VI are about and The Empire is painted as so oppressive as to make its over throw obvious. The Last Jedi's Canto Bight scenes continue that theme with a message about personal misuse of power which shows an increasing narrative sophistication. Star Wars Universe is getting more nuanced but it has always been to the left.
1.13.2.3. Pro: The movie contained references to veganism \(in the scene with Chewie trying to eat a Porg\) as well as animal rights and anti animal abuse \(on the casino planet\).
1.13.2.3.1. Con: During The Last Jedi, the character of Luke Skywalker, who is viewed favourably in the narrative, is seen to milk an animal and drink that milk immediately. This would not be in a film with an agenda to promote veganism.
1.13.2.4. Pro: The movie took a critical stance towards weapons manufacturers and sellers.
1.13.2.4.1. Con: -> See 1.13.2.1.1.
1.13.2.5. Pro: The original stories focused more on mythological and spiritual archetypes, and what politics existed were not particularly intrusive or controversial. Few audience members supported Nazism \(the Empire\), the role of the United States in Vietnam \(Ewoks\), or Nixon's presidency \(the Emporer\). These are what one might call 'safe' politics, aimed at a general audience.
1.13.2.6. Con: Star Wars is not a unique Universe. On the meta-textual level it is created by people living now and like all art will reflect the values of the era it is made. Some may argue it is impossible to create a universe different to our own because every decision every film maker makes is in some way informed by the environment they make them in. On a textual level Star Wars is set in "our" universe. It says it on screen in big letters. It is located in our universe but "far, far away.".
1.13.2.6.1. Con: The parent claim is that The Last Jedi's overt politicisation detracts from its sense of escapism, not that politicisation is unavoidable.
1.13.2.6.1.1. Pro: It would be impossible, given the terms of that, to say if this parent claim is true given that the level of politicisation which would distract would necessarily differ from person to person. What is "overt" to one might not be to another. The UK Guardian, for example, celebrated the political point of view of the film as adding a deeper layer of engagement in a "real" world. The solution would seem to be to lobby that the parent should be removed as being too subjective to be judged on.
1.13.3. Pro: Much of it was centered around an unrealistic and agonizingly slow chase scene — not the stuff of a fun fairy tale.
1.13.4. Con: Having political themes in a piece of art is both unavoidable and not inherently bad. While Star Wars is set in a different universe, the Empire in the original trilogy was an allegorical reference to Nazism. The political themes in The Last Jedi are powerful and make it much more meaningful and relevant to the audience.
1.13.4.1. Con: While it is true that political themes can not and should not be omitted by default in any work of art, they should also not be as prominent as in The Last Jedi. To engage the audience's intellect, the viewers has to reach conclusions about important topics themselves. If it feels like an agenda is pushed upon the audience, a well-intentioned scene is bound to feel forced and superfluous. It might even have a negative effect by annoying the viewer who feels manipulated.
1.13.4.2. Con: The lack of meaningfulness and/or relevance to the audience is exhibited by the response in the world's 2nd largest market: [China](https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/heat-vision/star-wars-china-box-office-why-disneys-jedi-mind-trick-isnt-working-china-1075177). So much so, in fact, that it [was pulled altogether](https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/films/news/star-wars-the-last-jedi-china-box-office-pulled-a8164186.html). On this basis, one could argue that it was the original trilogy that was the only thing to draw western audiences to the movie to begin with.
1.13.4.3. Pro: There hasn't been any reason given as to why political themes in art are a negative thing. A political message adds relevance and impact to an otherwise trivial piece of fiction.
1.13.4.3.1. Con: When handled tastefully, and artfully. When done with the consideration a toddler shows a glass plate, you end up with obnoxious noise, distracting you from the already-convoluted plot.
1.13.4.3.2. Con: Political statements, especially controversial ones, will draw criticism when placed in mainstream content that was hitherto largely apolitical.
1.13.4.3.2.1. Con: Star Wars is not apolitical. The political messages of it: that imperialism and conformity are bad and that free expression is good, are not especially sophisticated to the audience of the Western viewer would be perceived differently were they shown in, for example, Pyongyang. Commonly held political views my appear apolitical because they are well subscribed within the society one is in but to the outside they are political.
1.13.4.3.3. Pro: Yes, of course they will. But if a franchise refuses to take any political stance for fear of criticism by its fanbase, this is cowardice and cheapens the story. The criticisms from fans who don't want politics in their art are short-sighted and ignorant.
1.13.4.3.3.1. Con: Anything pitched at a general audience should steer clear of potentially divisive politics- for no other reason that they could harm sales.
1.13.4.3.3.1.1. Con: This is a ridiculous statement to make. It is true that divisive politics can harm sales, but sales are not a metric for the quality of a movie. Many uninspiring movies make large amounts at the box office, this doesn't make them good. Any movie that steers away from politics to boost sales is shallow and unlikely to be particularly outstanding artistically. Art is political, and the best art is often divisive in its politics.
1.13.4.3.3.1.1.1. Con: Mainstream modern cinema is driven almost exclusively by the profit margins, and Star Wars, for better or worse, has been dragged into it. The original trilogy was unique, with a singular, even esoteric vision, but has since been subsumed into the Cinema-Industrial Complex.
1.13.4.3.3.1.1.1.1. Pro: Kubrick and Scorsese have largely shunned the big budget blockbuster movie, because individual artistic freedom is restricted by the committees that finance it.
1.13.4.3.3.1.1.1.2. Con: Star Wars 1977 was in no way an individual artistic project in the way that the implication of this question suggests it is. This is not to say that the film does not have a great deal of artistic worth - it does - but it was funded by a studio with the intent of making money. In addition it was created by a director, George Lucas, who struggled badly to see his vision realised, and who created a very poor first cut which was made into what we know now by collaboration with editors.
1.13.4.4. Pro: The reference to Nazism is not the only [political theme](http://www.history.com/news/the-real-history-that-inspired-star-wars) in the original trilogy. It also heavily relates to the Vietnam War and Nixon's presidency, which was definitely a controversial topic at the time.
1.13.4.4.1. Pro: That's just not true? By comparing US involvement to the Galactic Empire, he is clearly taking a stance against the Vietnam War. Besides, he outright states that he sees Nixon as similar to Palpatine.
1.13.5. Con: Many consider the cultural themes to be more engaging than any fairytale mythology. The mythology of the previous Star Wars movies wasn't abandoned in The Last Jedi but instead it was re-examined, updated and developed to become more compelling.
1.13.5.1. Pro: It is shown that heroes like Rey aren't special because of their lineage but for their moral strength. This is an example of how the story begun in the previous installments is improved upon.
1.13.5.1.1. Pro: This was Rian Johnson's [stated intention](https://www.syfy.com/syfywire/rian-johnson-explains-that-huge-reveal-about-rey%E2%80%99s-parents-in-the-last-jedi) and message. That heroes can come from anywhere and are not tied to lineage or bloodlines.
1.13.5.1.2. Con: That it improves the story and plot is subjective. Many feel that it is a slap in the face to all the previous movies, the setting, their stories, characters and the work put into creating that universe.
1.13.5.1.3. Con: Rey is special because she is anomalously adept in the Force. All the moral strength in the world would be useless against Kylo and Snoke without this arguably unearned talent.
1.13.5.2. Con: That it is "more compelling" is entirely debatable. The evidence being this very debate and the high level of controversy the movie has generated.
1.13.6. Pro: The movie sacrificed its narrative and charm for a story line that goes too far in its attempts to appeal to real-world discourses about gender.
1.13.6.1. Pro: The new series' pandering to in-group collectivism and identity politics is more controversial and divisive than anything that has come before.
1.13.6.1.1. Pro: Rogue One mainly did this along ethnic lines \(by grouping villains exclusively into one category- white males, and the heroes into another- non-white/non-male\), The Last Jedi does this along gender lines, empowering nearly all of its female characters while showing its male characters as weak, misguided, evil or morally compromised.
1.13.6.1.1.1. Con: Poe Dameron is a male character who is depicted as strong, well guided, good and moral.
1.13.6.1.1.2. Con: Finn is a male character who is depicted as strong, well guided, good and moral.
1.13.6.1.1.3. Con: Rogue One's groupings were defined by a need to keep within established parameters set out by Star Wars 1977 in order to create a creditable counter piece to Star Wars 1977. As a result the Empire characters are inherited as \(on the whole\) middle-aged white Englishmen rather than that being a choice by the creatives.
1.13.6.1.1.4. Con: The narrative empowers all its character to make decisions and take actions within the plot not just the female character. For example Poe is able to enact a number of action chains.
1.13.6.1.1.5. Con: The action that the characters of Holdo and Leia take lead to poor outcomes for The Resistance. Holdo's plan to use the small ships mostly fails.  Snoke's plan to turn Rey fails. These are examples of how the narrative affords empowerment of action to the full range of characters it is even handed in not guarantee them a positive resolution.
1.13.6.1.1.6. Pro: The narrative portrays Finn's decision to sacrifice himself to destroy the land cannon as misguided.
1.13.6.1.1.7. Pro: The narrative portrays nearly all of Poe's actions and decisions as misguided, or having a counterproductive effect on the Resistance.
1.13.6.1.1.7.1. Con: Poe's actions lead to the destruction of a Dreadnought which is described as "a fleet killer" and that has a positive impact on The Resistance enabling the fleet to escape.
1.13.6.1.1.7.2. Con: Poe's analysis of Luke Skywalker's projection on Cait is correct - Luke is buying The Resistance time - and by taking an action following that he enables The Resistance's final escape.
1.13.6.1.1.8. Con: The Last Jedi shows women on both sides of the battle, such as on the Bridge of the First Order ship and commanding groups of Stormtroopers.
1.13.6.1.1.8.1. Con: It goes without saying that the parent claim refers to lead female roles or significant supporting roles. Captain Phasma aside, citing non-speaking, uncredited or otherwise minor roles as examples of female villainy is [evasion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evasion_\(ethics\)) of the original point.
1.13.6.1.1.8.1.1. Con: When considering roles in a movies if one only considers speaking, credited roles as significant then one can not draw any reliable general conclusions because the sample size is too small.
1.13.6.1.2. Con: By featuring diversity of characters on the side of The Resistance The Last Jedi deliberately avoids identity politics which is the organisations of society and structures in society by identity.
1.13.6.1.2.1. Pro: People of colour, people of different gender, people of diverse ethnic origin, people of different ages and the people of Sullust are all represented as being in the same organisation because of their beliefs. This is the opposite of grouping by identity.
1.13.6.2. Con: If Finn - portrayed by a Brit of Nigerian ancestry - is a bad male stereotype, then that would count against the "Politically Correct nature" the claim makes. Were the movie to have a PC nature then the black character would not be portrayed in a negative light.
1.13.6.3. Pro: Characters like Holdo felt incredibly forced as the film attempted to portray her as a voice of reason but only succeeded in making her look like a fool for not relaying the plans to the lower ranking officers. An existing character in Admiral Ackbar could easily have done everything she did.
1.13.6.3.1. Con: Holdo seems to be extremely unreasonable for not communicating her plans and in this she is a flawed character. The preposition here is that the film tries and fails to make Holdo seem reasonable but perhaps it is more accurate to say that the film creates an unreasonable character.
1.13.6.3.2. Pro: The thematic message conveyed by Poe's relationship with Holdo is the importance of teamwork, but this message is watered down by Holdo's apparent hypocrisy. It seems incomprehensible that this was deliberate on the part of the writers.
1.13.6.4. Con: Kylo's character is not a stereotype at all, his character is deep and shows true growth in this film, abandoning his mask and childish ways. He allows himself to be vulnerable with Rey and refuses to kill Leia when presented with the opportunity.
1.13.6.4.1. Con: Focusing all the AT-AT fire on one individual \(after petulantly assaulting his first officer for quite reasonably questioning the order\) wasn't a display of maturity by Kylo.
1.13.6.5. Con: The male stereotype of Luke would have raised the X-wing out of the water and tried to literally take on the First Order with a laser sword. By instead projecting himself across the galaxy, he is subverting that stereotype.
1.13.6.5.1. Con: Heroism is not a gendered issue.
1.13.6.6. Con: Men in Star Wars film have often acted stupid and rash. This film is no different. It simply just chose to exam what would happen if these half baked plans didn't somehow magically come together for a win.
1.13.6.6.1. Pro: Throughout the prequels, Anakin Skywalker is seen to act in an irresponsible and madcap fashion, for example when attacking Count Dooku and almost getting himself and Obi-Wan killed.
1.13.6.6.2. Pro: Luke Skywalker during his young years routinely acts in a reckless fashion and ignores advice, especially from Yoda during his training and before heading into the trap his own father prepared for him.
1.13.6.6.3. Pro: Thought the movies, Han Solo is depicted as a bad businessman who constantly gets into serious trouble trying to betray people much more powerful, such as the Guavian Death Gang and Jabba.
1.13.6.7. Pro: There is no major male character who isn't obviously flawed, or not shown in an unflattering light. There is no major female character \(Captain Phasma aside\) who is obviously flawed, or is shown in an unflattering light.
1.13.6.7.1. Pro: Portrayals of perfect characters are inherently boring. No previous Star Wars film featured a character without flaws.
1.13.6.7.2. Con: Rey, too, suffers from various character flaws.
1.13.6.7.2.1. Pro: Rey is too trusting and naive. Believing that she could turn Kylo back to the light leads her to leave Luke prematurely without completing her training.
1.13.6.7.2.1.1. Con: Her naivete is not a significant flaw for Rey. While she is unsuccessful in turning Kylo, she escapes without paying any real price for her naivete - unlike, for example Luke, who loses a hand.
1.13.6.7.2.1.1.1. Con: Luke did not seek to turn Vader to the light side during the fight where he lost his hand. Rey clearly sought, and hoped to bring Kylo to the light side. As Rey relates to Kylo in several ways, and is seen as going through similar internal conflicts to Kylo, failing to turn him should be considered a devastating failure for her.
1.13.6.7.2.1.1.2. Con: Rey is a distinct character from Luke, and the idea that her successes and failures have to be measured against his is ridiculous.
1.13.6.7.2.1.1.2.1. Con: Like Luke, she left before completing her Jedi training against the will of her master, to face a vastly superior enemy \(Snoke and Kylo\). Where Luke was resoundingly defeated by Vader, Rey emerged completely unscathed. If Kylo is meant to be her counterbalance in the Force, and has received significant training, he should have enjoyed something resembling a victory over her by this point.
1.13.6.7.2.1.1.2.1.1. Con: Unlike Vader, Kylo is not vastly superior to Rey at this point, as is shown in their battle. It is not equivalent to Luke fighting Vader at all.
1.13.6.7.2.1.1.2.1.2. Con: If the same rules for determining plot progression were used as in the previous movies, down to determining whether a character should be injured or not, the movie would be boring and unoriginal.
1.13.6.7.2.1.1.2.1.3. Con: Kylo's arc as a character would not have been aided by a victory over Rey at this point in the story. He is a character that gains a sense of anger and bitterness over being defeated again and again by those he sees as beneath him, and this bitterness is a foil for his character as well as a driver for his plans/progression as a villain.
1.13.6.7.2.1.1.2.1.3.1. Con: If that was true, then Kylo Ren’s character would be being developed at the expense of the Rey’s character. She can’t emerge from a story without meaningful defeats or losses, and still be called an adequately developed character. Luke lost his Uncle and Aunt, his hand, and his innocence, Leia lost her whole planet, Han lost everything when frozen in carbonite, Anakin lost his wife, his children, and he and Luke lost multiple limbs. All of them had to be saved at some point, not so for Rey.
1.13.6.7.2.1.1.2.1.3.1.1. Con: Rey faces plenty of meaningful hardship during the Force Awakens and The Last Jedi. Rey grew up alone, abandoned by her parents, who she never finds. Rey loses Han Solo, only shortly after getting the feeling that she has found a mentor and father figure in him. Rey is mostly rejected by Luke, the one person who could teach her about her force powers, and what it means to be a Jedi, and Luke dies shortly after opening up to Rey.
1.13.6.7.2.1.1.2.1.3.1.1.1. Con: And not a single bit of this causes her any noticeable angst. She takes it all in her stride as if it were water off a ducks back. There is no meaningful character growth from any of it.
1.13.6.7.2.2. Pro: Rey is obsessed with finding either her parents or parental figures throughout both The Force Awakens and The Last Jedi. This leads her to make a lot of questionable choices.
1.13.6.7.3. Con: Admiral Holdo's sense of superiority and lack of trust in her lower ranking male subordinates nearly kills off the entire resistance.
1.13.6.7.3.1. Con: True, but the value in following the orders of one's superiors \(Holdo\), regardless of their efficacy, is hammered home as though gospel.
1.13.6.7.4. Con: Every character in the movie is nuanced and has strengths and weaknesses. Poe, Luke, and Kylo are powerful but not invincible. Holdo, Rey, and Leia all have clearly marked flaws that move the plot along.
1.13.6.7.4.1. Pro: -> See 1.13.6.3.1.
1.13.6.7.4.2. Pro: -> See 1.13.6.7.2.1.
1.13.6.8. Con: Despite having acting rashly, Poe Dameron has many admirable qualities.
1.13.6.8.1. Pro: Poe's qualities of being rash are very suitable for some situations and not for others and in this film the character's arc is that he learns that collective action is, at times, more appropriate than individual excellence. This arc is mirrored in the general themes of the text.
1.13.6.8.1.1. Con: Acceptance of Poe’s rashness is not universal. No one really learn anything when Leia convinces Holdo to swoon over Poe anyway. His ah-ha moment was realizing not to fight but run when Luke draws focus after Holdo was gone. But Leia & Holdo had already accepted old crazy Poe not new thoughtful Poe; consequently, his “rash” behavior was unexceptional and already accepted & facilitated by Leia. Therefore, there was no growth to his character, and what is suggested as being rash actually was not so
1.13.6.9. Con: It is interesting that there is little criticism of the original trilogy and prequels for having barely any major female characters, and yet as soon as female characters are include Star Wars fans are suddenly up in arms.
1.13.6.9.1. Con: Correlation does not imply causation. The criticism of the female characters is not necessarily because they are female.
1.13.6.9.2. Con: There are many female characters from Star Wars that are beloved as characters. There are examples listed below in the pros.
1.13.6.9.2.1. Pro: Searching though the EU, there are many fan favorites, Let me give you some. Kreia, Etain Tur-Mukan, Bastilla Shan, Meetra Surik, and Mara Jade. There are a ton of female characters in SW that people enjoy. There are even female characters in the Canon that are loved, Ahsoka, Ventress, and Hera. Phasma even has an enjoyable comic series and her portrayal in the movie doesn't meet with the same level of sophistication.
1.13.6.9.2.1.1. Con: The audience of the Extended Universe is different than it is is for the movies and subsequently the reactions to characters in both are different.
1.13.6.9.2.1.1.1. Con: There is much overlap in viewers of Extended Universe material and viewers of this movie. When it comes to the movies as a whole there is even more overlap.
1.13.6.9.2.1.1.1.1. Pro: Examples include popular Star Wars Youtubers Dash Star, Geetsly's, Generation Tech, Lore Master, and more. There are also many people who have both consumed EU content and seen the movie that do not have such large platforms. This includes myself.
1.13.6.9.2.2. Con: The criticisms of the Last Jedi as being 'too PC' stand out as hypocritical as there is limited criticism of the original trilogy and prequels for being mostly male-dominated.
1.13.6.9.2.2.1. Con: There is a difference between complaining about a movie being male or female-dominated and complaining about a movie due to the promotion of a regressive ideology as a good thing. This goes back to Ghostbusters and why that film is so justly hated. A movie being male-dominated or female-dominated in of itself is of no consequence and is treated as such.
1.13.6.9.2.2.2. Pro: As political correctness is ab ovo an attempt to create a situation in which benefits all then it an excess of it could only be a benefit to all.
1.13.6.10. Pro: Because of Poe's reckless actions consistent with the "fly boy" stereotype ascribed to him, he is blamed for the deaths of Resistance fighters, demoted and publicly humiliated. He is finally taught that rebelling against the chain of command, even when it is ostensibly incompetent and even self-destructive, is not acceptable.
1.13.6.10.1. Con: Poe is explicitly approved of in his questioning of  authority by the narrative \("He is a troublemaker, I like him"\), however his character arc is one of understanding that individual excellence is not always the solution to a problem and that sometimes a problem is solved by a collective action. This is a common theme in the text. Luke's speech about how he will not turn up with a "laser sword" is an echo of this. Poe's arc takes him from being a brash pilot to being a responsible leader.
1.13.6.10.2. Pro: Poe's arc from loose cannon to responsible leader would have been more compelling if not for the problems caused by Holdo's secrecy that have been discussed elsewhere. His mutiny was arguably justified in the face of what appeared to be rudderless leadership.
1.13.6.10.2.1. Con: That is why they didn't kill him, they knocked him out and detained him because they realised Poe's worth. Holdo says she likes him when he is unconscious being led about an escape ship
1.13.6.11. Pro: Finn believes his ultimate destiny is to commit to the stereotype of heroic male sacrifice, and needs to be rescued from himself by Rose.
1.13.6.11.1. Con: This is not considered a bad trait that takes away from the movie or character for everyone, specifically some liked this.
1.13.6.12. Pro: Kylo is not a stereotype as such, but does not sufficiently mature throughout the story after early promise. Emotionally and in terms of wisdom, he still lags far behind his arch-rival Rey.
1.13.6.13. Con: A main theme of the film seemed to be failure and many of the male characters experienced or recalled past failure, but this does not mean they were blanketed as stupid and/or rash.
1.13.6.13.1. Con: Kylo Ren is meant to be seen as stupid and/or rash because he yells and throws tantrums. Snoke is meant to be seen as stupid and/or rash because he thinks he controls Kylo Ren when he doesn't, and in fact that turns into his demise. Finn is meant to be seen as stupid and/or rash because he disobeys those in charge of him, parks illegally which gets him thrown in jail, and trusts the backstabbing DJ. An entire sub-plot is devoted to why Poe is seen as stupid and/or rash.
1.13.7. Con: The cultural themes only seem more pronounced because the movie was released during a time of high cultural tensions, and we are more sensitive to them.
1.13.8. Con: There is nothing innately un-politically correct about mythology or fairy-tales in the style of Star Wars and many much mythos is centred around outsider characters, if one would choose to describe Finn, Rey et al in that way.
1.14. Pro: There is not even one real lightsaber fight in the movie.
1.14.1. Con: Star Wars is not solely about lightsaber fights.
1.14.1.1. Pro: [Concept artwork](https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/starwars/images/e/e5/ST_Lightsaber.png/revision/latest?cb=20130308043839) showed stormtroopers carrying lightsabers but a creative decision was made to restrict their use to certain character necessarily reducing the number of lightsaber battles.
1.14.1.2. Pro: In the end, it's not so iconic: the original trilogy, which was the most critically acclaimed, features [less than avg. 6 minutes/film](http://www.flipsidepa.com/story/entertainment/2015/12/11/how-often-lightsabers-show-up-in-star-wars-films/75578084/) of lightsaber duels.
1.14.1.2.1. Pro: We do not judge the importance of lightsaber battles by the time spent doing them or by the people holding the sabers and some rule about what is or is not a lightsaber battle. The importance of lightsaber battles is in their proximity to key plot moments.
1.14.1.2.1.1. Pro: In their better examples lightsaber duels have been correlated with important plot points \(The death of Obi-Wan, "I am your Father"...\) adding to their impact.
1.14.1.2.2. Con: While a 6 minutes average dedicated to lightsaber duels in the other movies may seem relatively brief, extensive lightsaber duels, or too many duels, would outlive their welcome. Certain aspects should be kept at [a tasteful minimum](http://www.nolanfans.com/forums/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=2310) to achieve the maximum impact.
1.14.1.3. Pro: Outside of The Return of the Jedi, the original trilogy did not lean heavily on lightsaber fights either.
1.14.1.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.14.1.2.
1.14.1.3.2. Con: The Empire Strikes Back has one of the most significant lightsaber fights of all the movies, with Vader revealing one of the greatest twists in movie history.
1.14.1.3.2.1. Pro: In rankings by various websites of the lightsaber fights throughout the Star Wars movies, this fight routinely occupies the [first](https://nerdist.com/a-ranking-of-every-star-wars-lightsaber-battle-from-worst-to-first/) or [second](http://www.starwars.com/news/the-starwars-com-10-best-fights) or [third](https://www.thetoptens.com/star-wars-lightsaber-duels/) position \(usually before any other duel from the original trilogy\).
1.14.1.3.2.2. Con: Even if it's true that the saber battle in "Empire Strikes Back" helps to build the climax, the same result could have been accomplished by many more situations, be it Vader chasing Luke, or a starship battle, or Vader trying to force-torture Luke. The saber battle was a great solution: it ended up being probably the most iconic scene in the whole franchise, and for this reason now it's difficult to imagine that scene differently; still, it was not the only valid alternative.
1.14.2. Pro: The fight of Luke versus Kylo Ren represents the climax of the movie, yet it never becomes a real fight, and involves one participant who is not even present. This is anti-climatic.
1.14.2.1. Con: This echoes the final defeat of Palpatine however, where pacifism and non-confrontation was the ultimate path to victory.
1.14.2.2. Con: Being present, especially in sci fi, is not a requirement for a fight. In Enders Game, Ender is not present in any space battles.
1.14.2.3. Con: Luke and Kylo \(Ben\) at the end was reminiscent of the Darth and Kenobi duel, with the added elegance of it being Light \(Ben Kenobi\) vs Dark \(Anakin Skywalker\) in Empire, and now Light \(Luke Skywalker\) vs Dark \(Ben Solo\). Light and Dark with a name-play and switch, much like the way the Force worked throughout the movie, as a force of balance. A little light in the dark and dark in the light, like the concept of Ying and Yang.
1.14.2.3.1. Con: None of the lightsabers ever clash. Even though Anakin's and Kylo's lightsabers are used against the Praetorians, they don't fight with a sabre. And Luke just avoids Kylo's saber attacks, he is not really fighting him with the saber, even though he has it with him. He might as well have come to the virtual fight without a projection of a lightsaber.
1.14.2.3.1.1. Con: Clashing light sabers with that fabulous noise we used to make as kids \(I did, anyway\) while playing - does not a light saber fight make. The presence and use would be all that is required.
1.14.2.3.1.2. Con: Luke's fight with Kylo extended past the physical - which was reinforced with the fact that Luke was a projection. Kylo did cut Luke down with his saber, and that left a scar deeper in his heart and psyche than any physical wound would ever make. The Last Jedi wants us to grow as fans, in my opinion, and expand our understanding of the Force.
1.14.2.4. Con: The battle between Luke and Ben was never meant to be a direct confrontation, more of a symbolic battle between the old order and the new age as further supported by Ben tearing down the last of the formal Jedi order and ushering in a new age of dark side users who aren't Sith.
1.14.3. Con: There were just the right number of lightsabre fights. Talent with the lightsabre is an indicator of progress in the ways of the Jedi or Sith. Having Rey and Kylo Ren fight side-by-side showed that they were delving deeper into their respective sides of the Force. Luke using Force Illusion to battle Kylo Ren showed that he has now transcended the expressions of a [Jedi Guardian](http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/Jedi_Guardian#cite_note-TJP-0) \(eg., lightsabre battle\), following in the steps of Obi-Wan into a deeper understanding of the Force.
1.14.4. Pro: The general feeling that it seems many share is that a movie with a 2 1/2 hour run time doesn't have enough action and feels dull. This might be something that can be analysed empirically by action sequence to run time length and comparing it to the other movies in the series.
1.14.5. Pro: Due to the large usage of lightsaber usage in the Prequel trilogy, fan expectation to see more usage may have been set higher and this movie subverts that. It is a justifiable criticism, that if you go to see a Star Wars movie, you expect to see the staples of Star Wars. By not meeting that expectation, fans can feel let down, disappointed and feel the movie compares unfavourably.
1.14.6. Con: While it could be considered disappointing, this could just be to make the duel in Episode IX all the more exciting.
1.14.7. Con: -> See 1.14.2.3.
1.14.8. Pro: With exception to Rogue One \(which did not follow the Jedi or Sith\), every Star Wars movie has shown lightsaber meet lightsaber. It's an iconic visual element of the series.
1.14.8.1. Con: -> See 1.14.1.2.
1.14.9. Con: The fight with the Praetorian guards was intense - and was with light sabers.
1.14.9.1. Con: The Praetorian Guard fight was intense but sadly and clearly was not a lightsaber duel. The Praetorian Guards wielded vibrio-voulse, Bilari electro-chain whip, double-blade, and electro-plasma sword. The one weapon none of the adversaries wielded? A lightsaber.
1.14.9.2. Con: The Praetorian Guard scene, for all its choreographed and visual excellence, has one glaring flaw: Rey should be dead. There's a [cinematic](https://www.reddit.com/r/StarWars/comments/89fp92/knife_goes_missing_during_throne_room_fight/) [goof](https://movieweb.com/last-jedi-continuity-error-throne-room-fight-two-knives-rey-death/) in the [movie](http://comicbook.com/starwars/2018/04/10/star-wars-the-last-jedi-continuity-error-rey/) that [ruins](https://geektyrant.com/news/heres-a-continuity-error-in-the-last-jedi-where-rey-should-have-technically-been-killed) [suspension](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uZUVQyXPbTc) of [disbelief](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BLrhwzeFJXM).
1.15. Con: The [reception](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Wars:_The_Last_Jedi#Reception) of The Last Jedi suggests that, while it is one of the most divisive Star Wars movies so far, it would be misleading to claim that The Last Jedi is one of the weakest Star Wars movies in the franchise, as both critics and a large amount of fans liked the movie a lot.
1.15.1. Con: Divisiveness is not a desirable quality for a movie intended to have widespread general appeal.
1.15.1.1. Con: The Empire Strikes Back was just as [divisive](http://www.acriticalhit.com/fans-react-empire-strikes-back-1980/) as The Last Jedi when it came out but is today widely regarded as the best Star Wars movie in the franchise.
1.15.2. Con: The polarized responses among viewers and critics are symptomatic of numerous serious underlying weaknesses in franchise continuity, plot coherence, character development, and overarching structure.
1.15.3. Pro: The Last Jedi is pleasing to a more general audience than other Star Wars movies due to it’s humor, romance, and compatibility with casual fans. This allows it to be well liked overall which is a characteristic of a strong movie.
1.15.3.1. Con: Yet much of the hate for this movie is coming for the long-time, hardcore fans of the series who have devoted countless hours consuming and reflecting upon Star Wars media. When a massive amount of the fans who are this devoted to the series do not like a piece of media pertaining to it there is a problem.
1.15.3.2. Con: [Rottentomatoes.com](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/star_wars_the_last_jedi/) seems to dispute this claim. Critic reviews are at 90%, however the audience reviews currently sit at 48% \(as of 22/03/18\),
1.15.3.2.1. Con: [Cinemascore](https://www.cinemascore.com/), otherwise, give the movie an "A" rating, based on review of the public as they are leaving the cinema, and so not influenced by internet reviews. This also balances the "engagement" influence, as casual audiences don't use to review the movies they watched on online sites.
1.15.3.2.1.1. Con: Polling moviegoers on the opening night of a film, immediately after having watched it, is far from a scientific way to gather data. The ability to process what you've watched, and re-watch a film to properly address it without an emotional veil, makes anonymous Rotten Tomatoes review scores more reliable interpretations of audience opinions. Rotten Tomatoes also omits scores below one-star for the purpose of protecting content from trolls. The 'real' RT score for TLJ is much lower.
1.15.4. Pro: Even if The Last Jedi was weak compared to The Force Awakens or the original trilogy it would still be far stronger than any of the prequels.
1.15.4.1. Pro: The Last Jedi represents the next chapter in a saga that spans four decades and incorporates the performances of actors and actresses continuing roles they did in their youth, now as elders.
1.15.4.1.1. Con: All of this says nothing about the quality of the movie.
1.15.4.1.2. Con: No more so than The Force Awakens, which handled the difficult balance between old and new with far more skill.
1.15.4.1.2.1. Con: The Last Jedi gave two of the biggest characters in the original trilogy; Luke and Leia, a much bigger role than in The Force Awakens.
1.15.4.1.2.2. Pro: The combination of Han Solo, Leia and Chewbacca saw significantly more screen time in The Force Awakens than the combination of Luke, Leia and Chewbacca in The Last Jedi, and did not create such controversy over their handling of the character\(s\).
1.15.4.2. Pro: Judging from [IMDB's user ratings](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2527336/), The Last Jedi \(7.2\) ranks above two of the prequels \(6.5, 6.6\).
1.15.4.2.1. Con: Using the IMDb scores creates [a circular debate](https://www.kialo.com/%5Bspoilers%5D-is-the-last-jedi-one-of-the-weakest-star-wars-movies-so-far-7055/7055.0=7055.1+7055.1241-7055.1296).
1.15.4.2.2. Con: IMDB user ratings is not a good metric for determining whether or not a movie is good or bad.
1.15.4.2.3. Con: IMDB ratings change on a moment by moment basis. Because they are not stable they cannot be used in an currently running debate.
1.15.4.2.3.1. Con: Like all average rating systems, the IMDb score is actually relatively stable about a month after release, and hundreds of thousands of people have cast their vote. Fluctuations tend to be really quite minor after that.
1.15.4.2.3.1.1. Con: The IMDB score for Star Wars The Last Jedi is not trustworthy because of the movie's controversial narrative which sees people suggesting it a poor movie as a way of expressing their distaste for plot elements. One might dislike a movie but still consider it to be well made. IMDB et. al. have no way to express this and so on controversial narratives such as this there is an inherent problem with the score system.
1.15.4.3. Con: George Lucas is not the best director and this was reflected in some of the actor's performances as they seemed to struggle to understand the direction he was giving, however the story itself often ties into the original trilogy and has some clever points to it even if it was delivered badly overall.
1.15.4.4. Con: Looking at Rotten Tomatoes, that does not seem to be true. Comparing the film's critic and audience ratings, The Last Jedi was well received by critics; yet It holds an audience rating of [48%](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/star_wars_the_last_jedi), which is worse than the lowest ranked prequel movie, Attack of the Clones, which holds a [57%](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/star_wars_episode_ii_attack_of_the_clones) audience rating.
1.15.4.5. Pro: In The Phantom Menace the primary villain, Darth Maul, is given no story or dialogue at all.
1.15.4.5.1. Con: Darth Maul is not the primary villain. The film titles speak only about main characters or events, and the titular “Phantom Menace” refers to Senator / Chancellor / Emperor Palestine, a.k.a. Darth Sidious, who is the over-arching villain of all six of the original and prequel trilogy films. Darth Maul was an “obvious” menace; Darth Sidious, however, was the “phantom” one.
1.15.4.6. Con: At least prequels tried something entirely new. Even if delivered poorly, they showed us different era, different look on the galaxy. Even though The Last Jedi wasnt a copy of episode 5, the whole trilogy, so far, is just too reminescent of the Old trilogy. There is no new, distinctive feel to it. The galaxy is just in the same state, as it was before, we see no fruits of the Old trilogy, basically all they did, was for nothing.
1.15.4.6.1. Con: The state of the galaxy was a set in episode 7, The Last Jedi was forced into that state, the blame for not presenting a new vision of order in the galaxy rests with The Force Awakens.
1.15.4.7. Pro: The Attack Of The Clones was abhorrent. The acting alone renders the film nearly unwatchable, let alone the [WETA Effect](http://www.slashfilm.com/weta-effect/) that saturates the entirety of the movie.
1.15.4.7.1. Con: Having seen some of the behind the scenes footage, the blame may not all lie with the actors - George Lucas seemed unsure or unable to communicate what he was looking for exactly when giving direction. The direction was confounded by the actors need to try and respond to elements/characters that were not present during the filming process but were added in post.
1.15.4.7.2. Pro: The style of Attack of the Clones recalls the fantasy adventure of Star Wars 1977 but the movie is considered poor because of failings beyond tone and style.
1.15.4.8. Pro: The Phantom Menace is weaker as it brings to Star Wars concepts that all later films had to abandon due to their toxic nature. Namely Midi-chlorians and the immaculate conception of Anakin.
1.15.4.8.1. Con: Themes of immaculate conception and midichlorians are not abandoned; in Revenge of the Sith Palpatine mentions that [Darth Plagueis](http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/Midi-chlorian_manipulation) manipulated midichlorians to create life, [glancing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=05dT34hGRdg) at Anakin with a pregnant pause, implying to the audience that Anakin himself was the result.
1.15.4.9. Con: Some consider Revenge of the Sith being better than Return of the Jedi. So it could be argued, that The Last Jedi might be the 3rd worst movie after Attack of the Clones and The Phantom Menace.
1.15.4.9.1. Pro: According to most scoring services Revenge of the Sith ranks only slightly below A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back, far ahead of the other two prequel films.
1.15.4.9.1.1. Con: On IMDB Revenge of the Sith rates lower \(7.6\) than Return of the Jedi \(8.4\).
1.15.5. Con: -> See 1.15.3.2.
1.15.6. Con: There is a consensus among online voters that supports the thesis. The Last Jedi has only [the 7th highest IMDb user rating](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2527336/) out of all 9 Star Wars movies. Users of popular movie review site [Rotten Tomatoes](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/star_wars_the_last_jedi/) rate it lower than any other Star Wars movie to date.
1.15.6.1. Con: Ratings on IMDb and Rotten Tomatoes are a debate \(in number form\) about the quality of movies and as such must run alongside this debate and not be included into it. To include them would see the debate become circular. The debate about the quality of The Last Jedi cannot become a point in the debate about the quality of The Last Jedi.
1.15.6.1.1. Con: IMDb ratings no more represent a debate among fans than the critic score represents a debate among critics.
1.15.6.2. Con: There are either eight Star Wars movies if one does not include spin off films or there are eleven being the eight movies, Rogue One, The Clone Wars, Caravan of Courage. The number is significant because the claim that The Last Jedi has the lowest score rests on that claim which directly impacts the claim that it is one of the weaker movies in the series.
1.15.6.2.1. Pro: Caravan of Courage was given a cinematic release in some territories.
1.15.6.3. Pro: The Last Jedi has been appraised by hundreds of thousands of voters on IMDb and Rotten Tomatoes. The far larger sample sizes provided by these sources offer a worthier indication of the movie’s qualities than the average ratings that score this debate.
1.15.6.4. Pro: A debate can only become circular by the inclusion of an externally sourced vote, on the agreement that a vote is intrinsically a debate. A debate by definition is an open back-and-forth between opposing positions; a vote is private and unchallenged. A vote in of itself offers no evidence of any debate that preceded it, and may indeed be influenced by many individuals who neither entered nor considered any debate on the subject.
1.15.6.5. Pro: There is an [online petition](https://www.change.org/p/the-walt-disney-company-have-disney-strike-star-wars-episode-viii-from-the-official-canon) to strike The Last Jedi from the official canon and start over, which normally would be an amusing but utterly pointless aside. However, when one considers the petition nears 84,000 signatures in only three weeks, it becomes a noteworthy indicator of the enmity held by many fans for the movie.
1.15.6.5.1. Con: In the first three weeks [The Last Jedi took $450​m](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/films/2017/12/18/star-wars-last-jedi-triumphs-box-office-despite-fan-backlash/)  which if we assume $15 per seat equates to 300,000,000 people. 82,000 represents 0.0028% of the people who saw the movie. This is a statistically insignificant number.
1.15.6.5.1.1. Con: It is highly unlikely that 300,000,000 people saw the movie in the first three weeks as it is common for people to choose to go see the movie more than once in cinema.
1.15.6.5.1.2. Pro: Multiple viewings of the movie by the same person as are multiple signings of the petition by an individual. In addition ticket prices vary from audience member to audience member and location to location. Nevertheless the statistical insignificance of the number is obvious.
1.15.6.5.1.3. Con: This math is incorrect, $450m at $15 per ticket is 30,000,000 tickets, of which 82,000 is 0.27%. Still insignifigant.
1.15.6.6. Con: In this circumstance, the ratings are particularly misleading and does not indicate the movies quality due to fan expectations skewing the rating.
1.15.6.6.1. Pro: Fans set themselves up for disappointment due to the immensely high expectations of how the movie's plot should develop.
1.15.6.6.2. Con: Fan expectation is a reasonable consideration, especially if you have an incredibly successful franchise. If, in making a new instalment, you alienate a good portion of your most loyal fans, you're placing that franchise at some risk. It'd be a bit like McDonald's deciding, "You know, we're not going to worry about people who like hamburgers anymore - we want to attract a different crowd."
1.15.6.6.3. Con: Fan expectations did not create a [noticeably negative skew](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2488496/) against "The Force Awakens", another hugely anticipated entry in the series \(being the first direct sequel to Return of the Jedi\).
1.15.6.6.3.1. Con: This is because The Force Awakens was essentially a remake of The Last Hope. The fact that this satisfied fan expectations does not mean that the movie was good, as many value other things in movies such as originality.
1.15.6.6.3.2. Pro: The Force Awakens was better at being considerate of its core audience's likes and dislikes, and was therefore better at connecting with them.
1.15.6.7. Pro: Then there are sites and news like [this](https://movieweb.com/last-jedi-remake-star-wars-fans-offer/) that show the level of fan distaste and polarisation. No other Star Wars film ever reached this level of distaste, even the oft maligned Episodes I through III
1.15.7. Con: Critics have a multitude of reasons to praise blockbusters such as these to further their careers. The reviews of these critics are of questionable worth.
1.15.7.1. Con: Critics routinely hand out negative reviews for productions by major studios - including Disney, as the low scores for last year's [Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/pirates_of_the_caribbean_dead_men_tell_no_tales) \(29% on Rotten Tomatoes\) illustrate.
1.15.8. Con: Critical acclaim doesn't necessarily mean a movie is strong, and critics writing glowing reviews does nothing to resolve poor writing, acting, and character development.
1.15.8.1. Con: In most cases appeal to authority/popularity would be a fallacy, but quality of a film \(besides technical stuff\) is basically a popularity contest. \(there are other qualities of a good film, but general appeal counts, and The Last Jedi had better critic reviews, so it would indicate that other more sophisticated quality measures are better anyway\)
1.15.8.2. Pro: The Oscars is an example of a film authority who is often accused of different types of incompetence, such as racial bias or corruption, when it comes to critical acclaim of movies. This shows that there is good reason not to trust appeal to authority in the case of the movie industry.
1.15.8.3. Con: Good movie critics are an authority because of their expertise in the medium which comes from watching a lot of movies. The opinion of someone who has been exposed and analysed a great number of texts is a valid authority to argue from.
1.15.8.3.1. Con: Movie critics are distinct from authority figures in various fields of study, because film is a medium of entertainment and their exposure is not reflective of education or knowledge. The general population is as exposed to film as an average critic is, by design. Without any measure of accreditation to merit a critic as having officially studied or graduated a particular school of thought, their input is no more valid than the average movie viewer who may also consider themselves a "critic".
1.16. Con: It's the most feminist Star Wars film made so far in that women can exist in the story with their own agenda and not merely because they are a princess or love interest.
1.16.1. Con: Having gender equality in a film does not necessarily make that film good.
1.16.1.1. Con: While gender equality in itself may not make for a good film, its absence or the perception that gender-relations have not been taken into account can clearly harm a film.
1.16.1.2. Con: A film containing female characters which reflect the diversity and reality of women's experiences will be better than a film that relies on caricatures of women.
1.16.1.2.1. Con: The Last Jedi does not have scope to reflect the diversity and reality of any character's experiences by virtue of the number of characters, the drive of the narrative, and the nature of movies as a medium. In The Last Jedi - as with the vast majority of movies - the characters are all caricatures of a sort because the depth of experiences is necessarily reduced.
1.16.1.2.1.1. Pro: [Darkest Hour](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2017/sep/13/darkest-hour-review-gary-oldman-toronto-film-festival-tiff) is able to devote its entire running time to a single character and study that character in depth. [Dunkirk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunkirk_\(2017_film\)), while dealing in the same part of history, does not because it deals with a greater number of characters.
1.16.1.2.1.2. Pro: To expect the full reality of character's experiences to be reflected is to hold The Last Jedi to a different standard than other movies.
1.16.2. Pro: The story of Rey resembles that of feminine empowerment in Wonder Woman: independent of what the world and their mentors tell them, both women set out to take sides in a conflict and have to preserve their sense of what is right in the face of adversity and temptation.
1.16.3. Pro: The Resistance is led by intelligent, capable and brave women such as Leia and Admiral Holdo who do not shy away from asserting their authority, especially towards men.
1.16.3.1. Pro: The conduct and behavior among the Resistance's leading women stands in stark contrast to the loud and immature in-fighting on side of the First Order.
1.16.3.1.1. Con: The conduct of the First Order is arguably superior to that of the Resistance. The First Order communicates their plans to subordinates, maintains chain of command, and does not rely entirely on narrative fabrication or deus ex machina for survival or success at every single turn. None of the same can be said for the Resistance.
1.16.3.2. Con: They are strong and assertive, but Holdo \(especially\) is far from wise. She is a terrible leader. She assumes she's the smartest person in the room and won't discuss her plans with her senior leaders. Her leaders question her decisions because they are so different from Rebel norms of behavior and, when she refuses to discuss or explain them, they conduct operations without her approval and ultimately mutiny. Had she talked to her staff, none of that would likely have happened.
1.16.4. Pro: Women play essential roles on every level of the war between the First Order and the Resistance, from commanding fleets to maintaining ships and piloting bombers.
1.16.5. Pro: In contrast to the former movies and characters such as Princess Leia, female protagonists such as Rey and Rose rise to glory without any hereditary claim and purely through their own actions.
1.16.5.1. Con: The original claim unfairly downplays Leia's impact on the original trilogy.
1.16.5.2. Con: There was little glory in Rose's story. She went on what was essentially a useless mission. When she returned she was suddenly a pilot. While on a mission vital to the survival of the Rebellion she instead chose to prioritize her infatuation with Finn over the lives of all. Her reaction to that was foolish —  she derailed the mission and could have killed Finn at least as likely as saving him.
1.16.6. Con: Many previous Star Wars installments include strong female characters and/or leads.
1.16.6.1. Pro: Both the Force Awakens and Rogue One feature female protagonists with their own agendas, and other female characters who are neither Princesses nor love interests.
1.16.6.2. Pro: -> See 1.16.5.1.
1.16.6.3. Pro: [Padmé Amidala](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Padm%C3%A9_Amidala) was Queen of Naboo, an important member of the Galactic Senate, and co-founded what would become the Rebel Alliance. She was fiercely pro-democracy and anti-corruption, but also competent in battle situations.
1.16.6.3.1. Pro: Natalie Portman, who played the Amidala, was perhaps [the most capable actor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_awards_and_nominations_received_by_Natalie_Portman) cast in the full run of prequel films showing the significance of her character.
1.16.6.3.1.1. Con: If the makers of the prequels would have wanted to emphasize the importance of Amidala, they would most likely not have cast Portman. At the time of The Phantom Mence's release, she was not yet established as a renowned actor and had not won a single significant price yet.
1.16.6.3.2. Con: While Amidala embodies a diplomatic and peaceful approach to conflict, she is increasingly side-lined throughout the prequels and "loses her voice, her self, and her life". One interpretation of this devolution: in the face of a harsh reality, female qualities cannot prevail \([Dominguez, p. 128](https://books.google.de/books?id=iNUnDwAAQBAJ&pg=PT123&lpg=PT123&dq=%22loses+her+voice,+her+self,+and+her+life%22&source=bl&ots=riH6pBNiBW&sig=omB2Kh8qlHWV3p4H3pCWG187Pd8&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiq1-Kqr9rYAhWF3KQKHXcVDUcQ6AEIKTAA#v=onepage&q=%22loses%20her%20voice%2C%20her%20self%2C%20and%20her%20life%22&f=false)\).
1.16.6.3.2.1. Pro: This appears to have been done in order further develop the character arc of Anakin Skywalker, showing a clear prioritization of a male character whose plot-line was already heavily focused on.
1.16.6.3.2.1.1. Pro: This reduced Amidala to mainly being the love interest and mother of Anakin's children, as well as the drive behind Anakin's turn to the dark side.
1.16.6.4. Con: In the original trilogy as well as the prequels, no women fight in any of the light saber duels - which embody Star Wars like few other things.
1.16.6.4.1. Con: Yes, they do, for example during the Battle of Geonosis in Episode II and in Episode I, there are three women on the Jedi Council \(the highest ranking Jedi\). They are: Yaddle, Adi Gallia, and Depa Billaba. In the original trilogy, there are no females involved in lightsaber battles because there are no jedi left.
1.16.6.4.1.1. Pro: Additionally to the canon saga films examples, there are in-canon examples, such as Ahsoka Tano or Asajj Ventress who appear in the Clone Wars TV-show. There are also many, more Legends characters such as Mara Jade, Jaina Solo, and even Leia herself, who wield a lightsaber and are considered Jedi \(or Sith\).
1.16.6.5. Con: Female characters received very limited screen time in the first trilogy, and not much better in the original trilogy. [Female screen time per movie](https://mashable.com/2018/05/31/star-wars-female-screen-time/#aXaeUhfNDqqj): they still didn't get the majority of the time in The Last Jedi.
1.16.6.5.1. Con: The Last Jedi runs 152 minutes long. A [fan edit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lUlgcS6ioPo) that [removed all](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7k0lvYLMr8U) [female scenes](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/comic-riffs/wp/2018/01/17/a-mens-rights-activist-edited-the-last-jedi-to-remove-the-women-its-bad/) only comes in at [46 minutes](https://www.pedestrian.tv/entertainment/last-jedi-mra-fan-edit-women/). 46 is a lot less than 50% of 152.
1.16.6.5.1.1. Con: The scenes that were removed weren't solely consisting of females. By removing scenes with women in it, the fan were also removing scenes with men in it.
1.16.7. Con: In this push for feminism, there are characters who seem to have been chosen solely on the basis of their gender and ethnicity and have become nothing more than one-dimensional.
1.16.7.1. Pro: Holdo seems quite lacking in personality when compared to how she has been portrayed in other media. Rose is known to be one of the flattest characters in the movie and her inclusion is also seen as destroying the pace of the movie while at the same time weakening Finn's character arc.
1.16.7.2. Con: Problems with poor writing of Star Wars characters appears to be a consistent issue throughout the franchise. Many white male characters throughout the franchise have been poorly written and one-dimensional.
1.16.7.2.1. Pro: While Count Dooku is a well-rounded character outside of the movies, he is poorly explained in the Star Wars prequels and is a one-dimensional character on-screen.
1.16.7.2.2. Pro: Bobba Fett in the Original Trilogy, and his father, Jango Fett in the Prequels are both one-dimensional characters with a large impact upon the respective plots of the films.
1.16.8. Pro: The Last Jedi clearly associates the presence and decisive influence of women with the "good side" - whereas the First Order on the "bad side" is run primarily by white men.
1.16.8.1. Con: -> See 1.13.6.1.1.8.
1.16.8.2. Con: One of the major character developments is about a man learning how to become the leader of the "good side" instead of just a very good Maverick pilot.
1.16.8.3. Con: The Last Jedi honours the casting choices of Star Wars 1977 in which actors representing The Empire were played by British actors who represented a specific type of Englishness of being white, military class and male.
1.16.8.3.1. Pro: In Star Wars 1977 The Empire's casting create a contrast with the young Americans of the Rebels that created for the audience a readily accessible comparison to the American War of Independence against George III.
1.16.8.3.1.1. Con: Sir Alec Guinness, a British actor, played the most capable Jedi.
1.16.8.3.1.2. Pro: This isn't actually a good thing, as it further reinforces the "Evil Brit" Cliche of Hollywood, which is not only uninspired and cliched, but quite probably racist.
1.16.8.3.2. Con: -> See 1.16.8.3.1.2.
1.16.8.4. Con: That "good" and "bad" are used as gender stereotypes should not be seen as positive as it promotes the idea that gender determines morality and virtue.
1.16.9. Con: The Last Jedi does not speak enough to the personality traits found [more commonly in women](https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/games-primates-play/201201/gender-differences-in-personality-are-larger-previously-thought) that would prove essential during a time of war \(like empathy, compassion and moral support\).
1.16.9.1. Con: It is a good thing to show female characters that can play the same role as a man, without the character having to be turned more feminine.
1.16.9.1.1. Pro: This is because it shows how women are also persons with qualities and traits beyond stereotypically ascribed feminine characteristics.
1.16.9.1.1.1. Con: Stereotypes always have at least some basis in reality, otherwise they would not resonate with the audience.
1.16.9.1.1.1.1. Con: However often it is the other way around. Because audiences are impressionable, and many seek role models within popular films, many take after characteristics from characters with the features most similar to themselves.
1.16.9.1.1.1.1.1. Pro: This means that if you are a young female seeking a role model, only seeing women that acts stereotypically feminine would make that young female to act more feminine when they otherwise wouldn't, had they seen more women that don't act stereotypically feminine in movies.
1.16.9.1.1.1.2. Con: Even if stereotypes have some base in reality, they are often exaggerated in popular culture, making them resonate less with the audience members which these stereotypes are based upon.
1.16.9.1.1.1.2.1. Pro: This is one of the main reasons why there's often a lot of outrage/dissatisfaction when female character's are reduced to feminine stereotypes in movies, and why it is so highly praised when a female character breaks these stereotypes.
1.16.9.1.1.1.2.2. Con: As an edited medium that has to focus clearly on elements rather than presenting "all life", movies are forced exaggerate all things in the narrative. Stereotypes and non-stereotype characters are exaggerated alike.
1.16.9.1.1.1.3. Con: Stereotypes about groups of people outside of the heteronormative structure are often only, or mostly resonating with the audience members who aren't part of the group being stereotyped.
1.16.9.1.2. Pro: Showing that women are capable to do and behave the same way men do is important to break the stigma against women behaving like, or participating in activities that are deemed un-feminine.
1.16.9.2. Pro: Well crafted gender specific characters in narratives acknowledges appropriate virtues while not being defined by them. [Alfie Elkins](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2592764-alfie) and [April Wheeler](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2004/sep/18/featuresreviews.guardianreview26) may be examples of gender specific characters who show virtues without being defined by those virtues.
1.16.9.3. Pro: It is not credible to write male and female characters as interchangeable who otherwise are not demonstrably gender fluid or transgender. There are biological differences between men and women on average that affect behaviour \([1](https://peerj.com/articles/884/), [2](http://www.joseluisdiaz.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/PerceptionSuffering_MenWomen_Mercadillo2011.pdf), [3](http://www.bbc.co.uk/science/humanbody/sex/articles/empathising_systemising.shtml)\), and should be considered for the sake of realism.
1.16.9.3.1. Con: That [behavioral differences](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2010/aug/15/girls-boys-think-same-way) between the genders are are based on biology and not on culture/social conditioning, is a disputed subject.
1.16.9.3.1.1. Con: The [conclusion](https://www.simplypsychology.org/gender-biology.html) of different biological and genetic approaches shows that biology has some effect on behavior, even if it's limited.
1.16.9.3.2. Pro: The position that gender is a social construct is held more by [social scientists and feminists](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_construction_of_gender) than [biologists](https://owlcation.com/social-sciences/Biological-Explanation-for-Gender-Differences). More so than other scientific fields, the social sciences have been dogged by accusations of left wing political bias \[[1](https://journals.cambridge.org/images/fileUpload/documents/Duarte-Haidt_BBS-D-14-00108_preprint.pdf), [2](http://yoelinbar.net/papers/political_diversity.pdf), [3](http://www.open.edu/openlearn/people-politics-law/politics-policy-people/society-matters/left-or-right-what-should-we-do-about-political-bias-the-social-sciences), [4](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/is-social-science-politically-biased/), [5](http://www.weeklystandard.com/study-shows-even-social-scientists-can-be-biased/article/2004051)\].
1.16.9.3.3. Con: There is [widespread](http://psycnet.apa.org/record/1984-09441-001) research on how [social behavior](https://books.google.se/books?hl=sv&lr=&id=edwE4L-yAhYC&oi=fnd&pg=PA3&dq=gender+social+construct&ots=dPlfZaSGCS&sig=D3G-zsJmFgAu5f3LHstVfxTpukY&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=gender%20social%20construct&f=true) is [affected](http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0891243204265349) through the [construction](http://psycnet.apa.org/record/1999-11924-002) and distribution of gender roles, and even the [World Health Organisation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gender#Gender_identity_and_gender_roles) defines gender as a social construct.
1.16.9.4. Con: Feminism is not about the representation of "feminine virtues" and many feminists would, on the contrary, regard the argument that the film fails because "the women are not feminine enough" as deeply sexist.
1.16.9.4.1. Con: Real feminism is not the belief that women can be just as masculine as men. Real feminism is the belief that femininity is just as valuable as masculinity.
1.16.9.5. Pro: Whether rooted in biology or not, there is an expectation on explicitly male characters to display at least some of the qualities found more often in men \(aggression and [ambition](http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/employers-men-women-ambitious-office-workplace-gender-sexism-a8121861.html), for example\).
1.16.9.5.1. Con: The Last Jedi generally displays its male characters with more commonly male traits- if only to use them as a critique of so-called "[toxic masculinity](http://www.denofgeek.com/us/movies/star-wars/269657/toxic-masculinity-is-the-true-villain-of-star-wars-the-last-jedi)".
1.16.9.6. Pro: Female characters are often written in a gender neutral manner, in as much a male could effectively play the same role with little alteration required to the screenplay.
1.16.9.6.1. Pro: Both Admiral Holdo and Rey face struggles that are completely non-related to gender.
1.16.9.6.2. Con: The same argument could be made about most male characters. Their storylines are usually not gender-specific.
1.16.10. Con: While it's nice that women are more fully represented, the producers/writers did so at the expense of a good movie. They made demonstrating the power of female characters their goal instead of making a great Star Wars movie. In doing, many of those women actually look foolish. The replacement admiral who jeopardizes everything because she refuses to talk to her staff, the plumber/electrician who's suddenly a pilot but jeopardizes everything by a stupid plan to save her love interest, etc.
1.16.11. Con: The role of Princess Leia in previous films already fullfils these criteria and presented a strong feminist role model.
1.16.11.1. Pro: Being a Princess and being able to be in a story are not mutually exclusive. In the movie [Roman Holiday](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roman_Holiday) the main character is a Princess and that character drives the story.
1.16.11.2. Pro: Princess Leia is one of the most driven and important characters in the entire saga, and is a strong, competent heroine from the beginning, even going as far as to squash Luke's hope of rescuing a damsel in distress when she turns out to be incredibly capable, herself. Padme literally ruled an entire planet from adolescence and is regarded throughout the prequels as being a devoted and righteous leader. Star Wars has never had a poor representation of female characters.
1.16.11.3. Pro: The notion that 'Princess' is somehow a derogatory status is false. The entire point is made out of ignorance of the other films’ and overall franchise creator, George Lucas who viewed Princess Leia as a well-skilled and well-educated feminist ideal. This is well-documented: [www.vanityfair.com](https://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/2017/08/princess-leia-phd-a-new-hope-george-lucas)
1.16.11.4. Con: An essential plot point of several of the original movies is that Leia has to be rescued by men, and that she otherwise is stuck in prison cells \(in A New Hope\) or even as a sex slave \(in Return of the Jedi\).
1.16.11.4.1. Con: Leia then rescues the rescuers, lamenting that they had no escape plan, and leads the way down the garbage chute.
1.16.11.4.2. Con: Leia saved herself from Jabba, by choking and strangling him with the chain he used to enslave her in the confusion.
1.16.11.4.2.1. Con: None of this would have been possible for Leia without her male rescuers and the chaos they created.
1.16.11.5. Con: No other character in Star Wars gets sexualized and objectified to the extent that Princess Leia does in her iron bikini outfit during The Return of the Jedi.
1.16.11.6. Con: The writers of Star Wars have consistently struggled to write strong and compelling female characters throughout the franchise.