Discussion Title: Is the meeting of Donald Trump with Kim Jong-un a good idea?

1. Is the meeting of Donald Trump with Kim Jong-un a good idea?
1.1. Con: The current regime in North Korea will never give up its nuclear program so all talks previously and in the future only result in reinforcing the regime.
1.1.1. Pro: North Korea has a nuclear program so as to keep up with the rest of the world.
1.1.1.1. Con: Other measures could compensate for the nuclear program if North Korea should offer to give it up, for example a security guarantee by China.
1.1.2. Con: As the sanctions hitting North Korea are getting stronger, it is by no means clear that the calculus about the nuclear program in Pyongyang cannot change.
1.2. Pro: The United States does not actually lose anything by agreeing to talk. On the contrary, it assures third parties that the United States does sees violence as a last resort.
1.3. Con: Opening this channel of diplomacy legitimizes the North Korean regime which will negatively impact America's relationship with regional allies.
1.3.1. Con: North Korea's reputation as an international pariah and violator of human rights would certainly not improve just because America conducts public talks.
1.4. Pro: A meeting could quell the fears North Koreans have towards the US which have been created by North Korean propaganda, for example by giving the US a human face.
1.5. Pro: Kim Jong-un is a new leader and should be seen personally by Trump because the US needs to know what kind of man he is. He is not his predecessor, even if he is of the same lineage.
1.6. Con: North Korean leaders have a long history of attacking foreign politicians, as the [attempts to assassinate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_House_raid) South Korean President Park during the 1960s illustrate. Trump risks his life to have such a meeting.
1.7. Pro: Working to reduce the nuclear threat North Korea poses by any means possible is in the best interest of the United States national security interests and for regional peace.
1.8. Pro: By having the meeting and opening North Korea to the world, we may see a reduction of human right violations in North Korea as a way to curry favor with the West.
1.8.1. Con: There is no evidence or historical record of an improvement of the human rights situation in North Korea during times of diplomatic engagement.
1.9. Con: By having these talks, the US may be giving away much more, such as economic sanctions on the regime, than what the US may receive, like a partial reduction of nuclear arms.
1.9.1. Con: The outcome of talks is by no means predetermined. The worst possible outcome is therefore hardly an argument against talks.
1.10. Pro: The meeting may help repair the damage of the war of words between Donald Trump and Kim Jong-Un.
1.11. Pro: The meeting may aid the reunification effort on both sides, and may help American influence the outcome.
1.12. Con: If talks fail, the increase hostilities between the United States and North Korea may put the US, or other regional powers, national security at risk.
1.12.1. Pro: If a war resulted, the region would see many North Koreans fleeing into neighboring countries, some of whom would continue to pursue North Korean interests there and undermine those countries' national security.
1.13. Con: This meeting only include the United States and North Korea, hurting other interested parties agendas with North Korea.
1.13.1. Con: Any bilateral talks could pave the road to restart the Six Party Talks that also involve China, Japan, Russia and South Korea.
1.13.2. Con: The South Korean government is involved in the whole process. It has brokered the summit, has already met Kim Jong-un and will host the summit with Trump.