Discussion Title: Is The Sanders Tax is A Good Thing?

1. The Sanders Tax is a good thing.
1.1. Con: The cost of administering this from the governmental perspective would be staggering.
1.1.1. Pro: It would put a huge burden on taxpayers.
1.2. Con: Companies would be inclined to rather leave the country with such a tax.
1.3. Pro: It makes no sense to hire a worker and require that they receive government assistance to live.
1.3.1. Pro: Wages should be sufficient for living. If a minimum living wage was enforced this would negate the need for such a tax.
1.4. Pro: Private companies and corporations should not be propped up with public money.
1.5. Pro: The burden would be lifted from taxpayers allowing more funds for other public services.
1.6. Con: It is an easily avoidable band-aid that does nothing to address the actual problem with the vast majority of large corporations: a corporations ultimate directive is to *increase* profit in order to assert its value to shareholders.
1.7. Con: There should be no reliance on public money at all. If these workers cannot afford the cost of living, they should find other jobs.
1.7.1. Con: People do have a civil obligation to work if they can. But it's the duty of the employers to compensate them adequately.
1.7.2. Con: This assumes adequate work with adequate pay is available, which it frequently is not at lower skill levels.
1.7.3. Con: This is a very particular political stance which many would strong disagree with; sometimes relying on public money is unavoidable, hence the existence of a welfare state.
1.8. Con: Companies would pass the new costs along to customers causing inflation.
1.8.1. Con: Passing the cost onto consumers does not cause inflation.
1.8.2. Con: Companies make their prices according to demand as well, not just according to the cost of production. The increase in prices would therefor be minimal.
1.8.3. Pro: All this tax would do is shift the revenue stream to private business, who would then raise the cost of their goods and services, which would pass that burden back to the consumers, which negates the benefits in the first place. It's a non-sustainable vicious circle.
1.9. Pro: Workers can live securely knowing they are able to take care of themselves and their families.
1.10. Con: Forcing companies to pay extra for public services is a slippery slope towards socialism/communism.
1.10.1. Con: The tax is essentially no different than a minimum wage in it's desired outcome, it is just a roundabout way of doing it. Since the minimum wage has been around for a while and we haven't slipped down any slopes so far, there is no reason to believe it will be different for this.
1.11. Pro: Healthier, happier workers could mean more productivity and potentially profits for the employer.
1.11.1. Con: This is speculative; they may also grow complacent, as they know their living circumstances are guaranteed, and so they need not work as hard.
1.12. Con: Forcing companies to pay extra for public services or wages would result in increased adoption of automation and unemployment.
1.12.1. Con: By paying their workers a wage which still requires them to be on welfare, companies are shifting the financial burden of running their business to the American taxpayer.
1.12.1.1. Con: Humans sometimes hide the true cost, bearing the burden because they have no option. For example, Uber wanted to replace its drivers with self-driving cars. Now it realises its drivers were making peanuts because of their [high overheads​](http://time.com/119587/do-uberx-drivers-really-take-home-90k-a-year-on-average-not-exactly/). By automating, Uber will now have to bear those costs, almost nullifying any gain and destroying their reputation as a good employer.
1.12.2. Pro: There is little incentive for companies to employ workers; it would be more monetarily viable to invest in any possible form of automation.