Discussion Title: Is the Star Wars series going in the right direction under Disney?

1. Is the Star Wars series going in the right direction under Disney?
1.1. Pro: The new movies have some of the most beautiful landscapes and overall visual beauty in the whole series.
1.1.1. Con: Despite that, since films are generally a narrative medium, if the plot and characters are not compelling, how visually stunning is a movie, may not help in attracting audiences.
1.1.2. Con: Star Wars films are about the hero's journey. They tell a story about characters along that journey. Landscapes are outside the scope of the storytelling of the hero's journey - they are simply a setting.
1.1.3. Con: The transformers movies had some of the best visuals at the time they were made, and revolutionized sound design. That does not make them good movies. Same principle applies here.
1.2. Pro: The multiplication of movies/shows/comics allows them to give their fans new content, and now they're even listening to them thanks to the Solo movie
1.3. Pro: Star Wars is now more diverse and thus accessible to a wider audience.
1.3.1. Con: Being accessible to a wider audience does not equate to better filmmaking. Often it equates to the exact opposite.
1.3.2. Con: Many of the characters representing minority peoples are not compelling characters, and could fuel incorrect stereotypes about those people.
1.3.2.1. Con: Even if we assume all of that, it is at least a step in a good direction.
1.3.3. Pro: Rose Tico, an Asian-American character, was important in being representative of a demographic seldom portrayed in Hollywood blockbusters.
1.3.4. Con: There is no more diversity than there was with the Expanded Universe before it was made non-canon
1.3.5. Pro: Rogue One is widely celebrated for it's [casting and character diversity](http://oneofus.net/2017/01/diversity-in-rogue-one-a-star-wars-story/).
1.4. Pro: There is no right direction and wrong direction. Films are still being made, and fans are getting more and more content to enjoy.
1.4.1. Con: More content does not = good content. Good content lasts, bad content eventually stops getting bought.
1.5. Pro: The people who dislike the new films are a small minority. The fandom is not really in crisis.
1.5.1. Con: According to rotten tomatoes user ratings, they would be in a majority of the active fanbase.
1.5.1.1. Con: Those ratings can, at least to partial but significant extent, be discounted because many angry "fans" are just mad the films have female and POC heroes.
1.5.1.2. Con: If we are using Rotten Tomatoes Audience scores as a measure of the active fandom, then yes a narrow majority \(54%\) did not like The Last Jedi, but the other 3 films under Disney's direction have much higher scores \(TFA 87%, R1 87%, SOLO 65%[rottentomatoes.com](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/franchise/star_wars_saga)\)
1.5.1.3. Con: An angry fan group claimed to use bots to lower the Rotten Tomatoes Audience score for The Last Jedi. [A rabid Star Wars fan may have rigged the Rotten Tomatoes score for “The Last Jedi”](https://qz.com/1160551/the-rotten-tomatoes-score-for-the-last-jedi-may-be-rigged/)
1.5.1.4. Con: People who dislike TLJ tend to feel strongly about it \(feeling betrayed, personally hurt\) and therefore are more likely to leave a review then people who liked it.
1.6. Con: Long time fans have been alienated by the way the new films have treated long established characters. They are leaving the franchise, and the box office results prove that.
1.6.1. Con: The [top three](http://www.boxofficemojo.com/franchises/chart/?id=starwars.htm) ranking Star Wars films in terms of box office results have been Disney's sequel trilogy.
1.6.1.1. Con: From the same link: Adjusted for ticket price inflation, only one of the top five grossing Star Wars movies are from Disney's sequel trilogy.
1.6.2. Con: If a franchise lives long enough, it will eventually leave behind long-time fans to create compelling stories for new fans with different mindsets.
1.6.3. Con: The direction of Luke being a sad lonely remorseful hermit was more character growth than the character had undergone in previous films, and it makes sense that he wouldn't be able to deal well with what happened to him as he was never really fully or properly trained as a Jedi.
1.6.4. Pro: With a global gross of [$392m](https://www.boxofficemojo.com/movies/?id=untitledhansolostarwarsanthologyfilm.htm) at the time of writing, and a reported production budget of [$275m](https://www.yahoo.com/entertainment/star-wars-spin-off-movies-put-hold-solo-flop-074037186.html) \(excluding any marketing expenditure\), Solo is categorically a flop- unprecedented in the Star Wars series.
1.7. Con: The Elimination of the 'Expanded universe' and creation of 'StarWars Legends' was an incredible mistake which removed so much continuity - explanations for everything seen in the films, characters of which added political outlooks to the series and the intricacies of it and more. Many fans of the StarWars universe have grown to dislike Disney and resent its newer StarWars films as a result of this - in a way it is no longer the same series a lot of people learned to love.
1.7.1. Pro: The new Star Wars movies \(film makers\) do not seem to understand what made the originals so accessible and beloved. Namely space wizards with laser swards flying around in cool looking space ships. more over the themes were pretty universal and while you can draw parallels between the Empire and the sentiments towards American Expansionism and the Vietnam War, but it was never as accusatory as the metaphors get in TFA and TLJ.
1.8. Con: The new movies feel like a series of branded visual moments with plot holes, rather than the more coherent storylines of the original trilogy.
1.8.1. Pro: The use of different directors for the first two films in the new trilogy means a lack of a unified creative vision. The second film took pains to side step what was set up in the first film.
1.8.2. Pro: Rey’s ability to learn Jedi skills without struggle undermines Rey’s character and wastes Daisy Ridley’s obvious acting talents.
1.9. Con: The new movies have not added anything meaningful to the universe. The sequel trilogy is a rehash of the original, and the stand alones are exploring characters we don't need the backstory of.
1.9.1. Pro: The new movies in fact undermine significant plot points in the Star Wars Universe. If any random ship capable of hyperspace can take out a massive battleship by ramming it, none of the epic space battles make sense.
1.9.1.1. Con: It's an unorthodox and costly tactic, certainly worthwhile of being revealed as a possible tactic in such a desperate situation as  the one faced by the resistance.
1.9.1.2. Con: As we understood, using Lightspeed as a weapon clearly dooms the persons on the ship. The space battles still makes sense though since Stormtroopers are people and the droids are a mix between a lot of money and materials to be constructed. And no "good guy" would do it as long as they have another option
1.9.2. Con: Many fans still loved Rogue One, which was a compelling tale preceding Episode IV.
1.9.3. Con: The most recent Episodic movie presents a more compelling overall tale for the main hero \(in this case, heroine\), now known to be a true nobody, whereas the OT focused on a boy who turned out to be the child of a famous and powerful individual.
1.9.4. Pro: All good thing must come to an end. It's past time that the Star Wars story comes to its end.
1.10. Con: The new films have become too political, and no longer feel like an escape from real life for movie goers.
1.10.1. Con: Dealing with significant socio-political topics in films is a way for people to properly engage with and understand their lived realities, which is preferable to avoidance as it can help people to find ways to navigate real-life issues.
1.10.2. Con: Star Wars has always been highly political.
1.10.2.1. Con: There's a difference between borrowing political iconography and "being political". The original trilogy did not contain political statements the same way Star Trek has, they simply borrowed images that carried political connotations. Star Wars OT was apolitical.
1.10.2.1.1. Con: The guys who are like the Nazis are clearly the bad ones. Star Wars OT is about as apolitical as the cold war James Bond movies.
1.10.2.2. Pro: The villians are the Empire, their soldiers are called "Stormtroopers" and Darth Vader's helmet looks like a Wehrmacht helmet. Star Wars has been anti-fascist from the very beginning.
1.10.2.2.1. Pro: Many characters presented in Star Wars are political and/or influent people \(as examples : Princess Leïa, Queen Amidala, The Emperor and even Lando Calrissian !\). Even if their "jobs" aren't shown to us, they hold position which all could influence the Galaxy.
1.10.3. Con: Star Wars has never been about escapism, it’s about good vs evil.
1.10.4. Pro: It definitely feels like there is an agenda that wasn't present prior to now.
1.10.5. Pro: Diversity is not alien to Star Wars and the diverse casting choices are not indicative of the new management. However morally grandstand about it and radicalizing the fan base is. For instance, Nobody thought twice about Samual L. Jackson as Mace Windu or Billy D Williams as Lando, So the increase of characters portrayed by minority Actors should not be a that revolutionary. This racism/sexism controversy seems to be a scapegoat for the declining marketability of the IP.
1.11. Pro: The new films have still made billions of dollars. The series is still wildly profitable.
1.11.1. Pro: -> See 1.6.1.
1.11.2. Con: Two thirds of the way through the sequel trilogy and with two further spin off movies under their belts, Disney have only recouped [a quarter](https://www.forbes.com/sites/csylt/2018/06/04/disney-recoups-a-quarter-of-star-wars-purchase-price/#6c6e6466481d) of their $4b investment. This is especially troubling since The Last Jedi took only [64%](https://www.boxofficemojo.com/movies/?id=starwars8.htm) of the global gross of [The Force Awakens](https://www.boxofficemojo.com/movies/?id=starwars7.htm), and Solo was an [unmitigated flop](https://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/2018/06/solo-star-wars-box-office-flop). There appears to be diminishing returns on the franchise.
1.12. Con: Many of the new characters are not well written or compelling enough for people to be excited about them.
1.12.1. Pro: In an effort to avoid outright heroism, Disney has created characters that are unremarkable and lacking meaningful progression.
1.12.2. Con: Rose Tico provides a compelling message of helping people, "Saving those we love," which is particularly important in the current political era.
1.12.3. Con: Kylo Ren is an awesome villian. He is not the moustache-twisting evil genius we all know and are tired of, but a multi-layered person with understandable motivations, like Loki.
1.12.3.1. Con: Kylo's defining character trait is his desire to prove that he is, for all intents and purposes, a mustache-twirling villain.
1.12.3.2. Pro: We've seen him actually stop and hold a blaster bolt in midair.