Discussion Title: Is The Internet a Good Source of Medical Information?

1. The Internet is a good source of medical information
1.1. Pro: People may find a lot of information on conditions that are not urgent enough to require a physician consultancy.
1.1.1. Pro: As Western medicine has not proven itself capable of creating a healthy society \(free of drugs, crime, psychosis, etc\), the internet provides a valuable resource in which to stay objective and self-empowered regarding one's own health.
1.1.2. Pro: They may also find a lot of little health suggestions, that a physician would not have time to explain to all of his patients.
1.1.3. Pro: It is easy to search for the exact combination of symptoms someone is experiencing.
1.1.3.1. Con: However, often people who are describing symptoms miss details about their symptoms.
1.1.3.2. Con: Basic Bayesian analysis explains why even accurate reporting of symptoms is insufficient. It may be the case that 'all symptoms' are explained by either a serious but rare illness, or a common illness; online resources will ignore probability and go for the simplest explanation.
1.1.3.3. Con: Even if the individual is experiencing something normal, there is always going to be someone claiming to have a medical solution. [Example](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0300124465?ie=UTF8&tag=thneyoreofbo-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0300124465) These 'solutions' could do more harm than good.
1.1.3.4. Pro: A person can look up information when they cannot afford a doctor's visit.
1.1.4. Con: Doctors often give patients choices about treatment options. They explain why certain treatments are better for one group over another, taking into account the entire medical history of a patient. This element of tailoring to individuals is missing online.
1.2. Con: Some people or companies have interest in spreading false information.
1.2.1. Pro: It is also easy for debunkers to spread refutations.
1.2.1.1. Con: This is not always true, because sometimes claims that are emotionally charged spread faster than logical and fact-based arguments.
1.2.1.1.1. Pro: A rational user should be able to distinguish illogical or non fact-based claim from plausible ones.
1.2.1.1.1.1. Con: Assuming a "rational user" is a poor foundation for general consumption information. Especially in difficult times, like researching an illness.
1.2.2. Con: Researches contradicting mainstream findings can spread on the internet. This is useful when mainstream findings are piloted by those with financial interests.
1.2.2.1. Con: An issue arises with information overload - there is too much information out there for an average person to interpret and comprehend in a meaningful way that will help their symptoms.
1.3. Con: There is contradictory information on the internet depending on which website one visits.
1.3.1. Pro: Even well-intended journalism and press releases misunderstand the science to the point of actually reporting the opposite of what the paper they are reporting on says. [\(I am self conscious about citing John Oliver, but he explains it well\)](https://youtu.be/0Rnq1NpHdmw?t=313)
1.4. Con: Internet users are hampered in their ability to send information on their symptoms. For example, a rash might have different medical solutions depending on the symptoms that allow doctors to identify the cause of the rash.
1.4.1. Con: After doing some researches, patients may become better at explaining their symptoms even to an in-person physician.
1.4.1.1. Pro: In-person physicians often don't have much time to listen to patients, therefore patients may have better chances of receiving a correct diagnosis by being more thorough and precise.
1.4.2. Con: The wealth of information on the Internet \(despite the potential for contradictory or misleading diagnoses\) can help increase early engagement with medical professionals. Preventive healthcare saves lives.
1.5. Con: Medication and treatment plans need to be organised in the physical world rather than the internet to be most effective for an individual. This means internet research does not cut it for those suffering symptoms who need treatment.
1.6. Pro: Several research documents and medical trials are available online.
1.6.1. Pro: The internet enables people to access peer reviewed journals and other scholarly material, often for free.
1.6.2. Con: Even proper rigorous clinical trials are not obviously different from rhetoric and lies, to the untrained reader. [Consider this homeopathy "research".](http://www.modernhomoeopathy.com/female_infertility__and_homeopathy.htm)
1.6.3. Pro: These allow scientists to provide new insights and write articles for journals from the trial and research publishing. This advances the medical field.
1.6.4. Pro: Medical books that patients would not have access to in a doctor's visit is on the internet. Since these are the sources that physicians use, someone could find information out without visiting a physician.
1.6.5. Con: People may not have the competences to interpret information on different conditions properly.
1.6.5.1. Con: Sometimes the interpretation is straightforward.
1.6.5.2. Pro: Web journals are pitched at highly specialised tertiary educated people - this is not the average reader requiring information about symptoms.
1.7. Con: Sometimes people share information without having competences, just for the purpose of visibility or other trivial reasons.
1.7.1. Con: People who make decisions emotionally may trust some well-crafted anecdotal claim, and decide to not visit a physician.
1.7.1.1. Con: In this case, the root of the problem is in the decision-making process of the person, not on the internet.
1.7.1.2. Pro: These people may harm not only themselves, but their relatives and other people, by following some wrong but popular beliefs.
1.7.2. Pro: Accurate research, by weighting information from various credible sources, should be sufficient for detecting these unreliable documents.
1.7.2.1. Con: This assumes an highly educated, critically aware and sufficiently trained public. Even in the developed world, schooling is often not geared at that.
1.7.3. Con: Information can be gathered through the collective wisdom of the crowd effect.
1.7.3.1. Pro: There are a lot of doctors on the internet. They indirectly verify information provided.
1.7.3.2. Con: Often medical questions are answered by not many users. This one, for example, only has [two replies](https://www.question.com/what-are-the-causes-of-heart-and-lung-diseases-583945.html).
1.7.3.3. Con: When the "crowd" is using Google as a search engine, the information is severely distorted. Top results are usually click bait articles selling a product or service rather than being based on academic, peer reviewed, scientific proof.
1.7.4. Con: A lot of physicians answer on the Internet.
1.7.4.1. Con: However, it is not possible to verify the experience of the doctors.
1.7.4.1.1. Pro: The doctors could be inexperienced in a particular issue.
1.7.4.2. Pro: Many doctors answer on the internet to improve their public profile.
1.7.4.3. Con: All nonsense claims appear to have their PhD supporters. A person doesn't have to lie about their credentials \(although, that's easy on the internet\) and can still be hugely misleading on a subject.[Various \(probably legitimate\) medical doctors and PhDs write for "Modern Homeopathy"](http://www.modernhomoeopathy.com/)
1.7.4.3.1. Con: This reasoning could be applied also to in-person physicians. A personal physician could also be misled by some weird theory, or indeed could be one of those PhD with weird theories himself.
1.7.4.3.1.1. Con: Internet sites will likely have a very high concentration of misleading yet still highly qualified authors or posts, when compared with a doctor's surgery or hospital.
This is because the hospitals and GPs have a continuous vetting process to remove these people, while pseudoscience websites have a vetting process to include them.
1.8. Pro: There are times when physicians are inadequate. One instance is when they give the [wrong diagnosis](https://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/medical-malpractice-misdiagnosis-delayed-diagnosis-32288.html) to a patient.
1.8.1. Pro: The information on the internet can provide a lot more answers than a physician could provide. Since doctor visits are short, not every question a person asks would get an answer. However, patients can ask endless questions and spend as long as they want on the internet.
1.8.2. Pro: Physicians are driven by profits, which leads them to bias diagnoses and treatments.
1.8.2.1. Con: There is no real evidence that doctors are driven by profits. Hospitals could, perhaps, be argued - but most doctors wish to help people.
1.9. Pro: Digitized medical information on internet could allow [AI to help physicians](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k7hxi4Aj7W0), which leads to better and faster diagnoses for patients.
1.9.1. Pro: The internet helps medical professionals and patients alike keep up-to-date with the latest medical information.
1.9.1.1. Pro: The body of knowledge in medicine, nursing, and other disciplines, has become so large that it is impossible for any one clinician to know everything there is to know, even within a specialty. [In medicine alone, \>50 million papers have been published in \>28,000 peer-reviewed journals​, with \>2.5 million articles contributing to this body of knowledge each year.](http://www.cdnsciencepub.com/blog/21st-century-science-overload.aspx)  This necessitates that clinicians use information systems in real-time, including the internet, to find needed information.
1.10. Pro: Most of the information found on the Internet is useful.
1.10.1. Pro: It's easy for an unexperienced reader to overestimate the importance of a factor, like a certain food or medicine, without considering all of the implications implied by that factor \(for instance a bad effect that the same food or medicine has in certain condition\).
1.10.1.1. Pro: Doctors are better at evaluating all the information out there than individuals who are not medically trained.
1.10.2. Con: The Internet's usefulness depends on how well one can find valuable and relevant information.
1.10.2.1. Pro: The fact that people are only able to navigate information if they know how to find the 'good' information shows an inherent deficiency in the internet as a source of medical information.
1.10.3. Con: The quality of medical online information is diluted by a drive for individual gain.
1.10.3.1. Pro: With the internet, pharmaceutical companies transformed themselves into online marketing machines and hooked the world on prescription drugs [\(see book\)](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0374228272?ie=UTF8&tag=thneyoreofbo-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0374228272).
1.10.3.2. Pro: Drug companies, Doctors and medical schools work together to drive profits in self interest. [See link](http://www.nybooks.com/articles/2009/01/15/drug-companies-doctorsa-story-of-corruption/)
1.10.3.3. Pro: Most medical journals are complicit in [corruption](http://ahrp.org/medical-journals-complicit-in-corruption-of-medicine/).
1.10.4. Pro: The internet enables people to access websites developed by NGOs, Governments and Universities detailing common symptoms and side-effects.
1.10.5. Pro: Websites like www.drugs.com are invaluable at explaining drug interactions and symptoms which a person is able to explain to their GP or specialist if they are suffering those symptoms.
1.10.6. Pro: Pharmaceutical websites include the brochure explaining details about medications and warnings.
1.10.6.1. Con: The details and warnings are often missing vital information. For example, in Australia, our doctors are only required to provide an information sheet with vaccines and do not have to include independent studies that indicate unlisted negative effects.