Discussion Title: Is the competition among gaming consoles a bad thing?

1. The competition between gaming consoles is harmful to gamers and gaming as a whole.
1.1. Con: Competition creates awareness because users write and chat about what's the best console.
1.1.1. Con: Discussions and discourses about video games would be more interesting and valuable if less time would be spent on debating gaming platforms and more on debating games.
1.2. Pro: It stimulates the release of console-exclusive games.
1.2.1. Con: Making a game exclusive to a console can make it better, as it can run smoother and take advantage of the console's features.
1.2.2. Pro: Making games console-exclusive stimulates the use of emulators.
1.2.2.1. Con: Modern consoles are becoming increasingly hard to emulate.
1.2.2.2. Pro: Emulation misses the point of the competition between consoles.
1.2.3. Con: Console-exclusive games function, in part, as identity of the console. For example, the Mario Brothers for Nintendo or Sonic for Sega.
1.2.4. Pro: This creates divisions within the gaming community as - depending on the platforms they have access to - not all players have access to the same games.
1.2.5. Con: The release of console-exclusive games helps stimulate the purchase of the console.
1.2.6. Con: The competition between consoles helps stimulate the creation of better games.
1.2.6.1. Con: If developers and publishers would develop their games for a unitary console platform, they could reach a larger audience, expect higher profits and invest more money into the making of their games, thus producing higher-quality games.
1.3. Con: The competition stimulates companies to make better products.
1.3.1. Con: Even without the competition among multiple platforms, consoles would have to compete with PCs. Competition would thus be not absent even without multiple platforms.
1.3.2. Pro: The development of better hardware usually benefits all platforms, even PC.
1.4. Con: Competition keeps prices down.
1.4.1. Con: The gaming market is dominated by a few companies that can be seen as an oligopoly. This situation does not necessarily lead to lower prices and competition is weak.
1.5. Pro: Console competition divides the gaming community.
1.5.1. Con: People divide themselves naturally and this would occur naturally by any other reason.
1.5.2. Con: The gaming community would always be divided on something or other, the console gaming competition is just one.
1.5.3. Pro: It causes "fanboys" to accept the malpractices from the companies they defend.