Discussion Title: Is there a point to praying to god?

1. It is worth praying to god.
1.1. Pro: Praying in a religious facility \(Church, Mosque, Temple, etc.\) allows to partake in a cultural tradition as observer; similar to sightseeing or watching an event.
1.1.1. Pro: Ritual and prayer is an art form and so are the artifacts and buildings of ritual. It would be a great shame to lose them.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Partaking in festivities, such as [Bhudda's Birthday](https://www.90daykorean.com/buddhas-birthday-in-korea/) is a great way for tourists to explore the culture of Korea.
1.1.1.2. Con: Religious structures are built by the community and are unless. This expense and effort could be used to build a hospital or some other useful structure. Even just better homes.
1.1.2. Con: Visiting Bedlam asylum was also once a positive attraction. People paid to see the inmates. Although visiting an institution that is alien to our lives may be interesting, it does not necessarily justify the institution itself.
1.1.3. Pro: Many religious services have become tourist attractions, such as attending a [mass](http://www.papalaudience.org/papal-mass) read by the pope.
1.2. Pro: When we pray for others it teaches us to be less selffish.
1.2.1. Con: Prayer often asks for god to preference us and our loved ones. This is selfish.
1.3. Pro: Prayer can help psychological well-being.
1.3.1. Pro: Praying is like meditation and reduces stress.
1.3.1.1. Con: Truth is lost in this context, God has been replaced with a ritual that fools the user into calmness. Prayer becomes a useful hypocrisy and no longer functions as prayer, it does not need god.
1.3.1.2. Con: Prayer demands a deity, belief system, and expectation that prayer will accomplish something, the failure of which can create stress. Meditation requires none of that.
1.3.2. Con: if not answered our prayers will make us feel unworthy and a failure. The idea of agency is given conditionally but its likely we will fail the criteria and god will not answer our prayers. This will make us feel worse than thinking things are just happening without cause. An unanswered prayer is a punishment.
1.3.3. Pro: Prayer is a comfort for people. It can be someone to talk to when you need a friend or you just need to vent. Sometimes it is not the conversation i.e a reply that's needed, but just being able to let it all out is enough for some.
1.3.4. Con: Prayer, akin to talking to ones self, can reinforce harmful ideas or behavior \(bigotry found in religious doctrines, violent ideologies, etc.\) and is a dangerous substitute for professional help.
1.3.5. Con: Prayer promotes expectations of improvement with no incentive for action, leading to inaction that can worsen the situation, and result in harmful disappointment.
1.4. Pro: Prayer may work and as it does no harm it is better to pray just in case it works.
1.4.1. Con: It is impossible to practice every religion on the planet just in case one of them in correct, and just practising one incase it's correct doesn't make much sense if you're not going to commit to them all.
1.5. Pro: Praying can be part of a group ritual that helps social cohesion.
1.6. Con: It's just a mechanism to get you invested in the religion.
1.6.1. Con: Gratitude is more than selfishness. Prayer including thanks and desire has more to offer in terms of willingness and deserving than talking to oneself. One will not always trust himself alone.
1.6.2. Con: Prayer manifests Faith in Christ, since it is the substance of Hope and evidences things not seen, which are True. "Evil does not teach man to pray, but that we must not pray. If ye [hearken to the Spirit](https://www.lds.org/scriptures/bofm/2-ne/32.8-9?lang=eng&clang=eng#p7), ye would know that ye must pray." As we Obey Law, we may Pray to know truly what to Love, thereby gaining lasting Happiness in our Doings.
1.7. Con: If prayer worked then there must be an interventionist god, this would contradict the principle of free will
1.8. Con: If there is a god then praying to a second, extant or not, may infuriate the first.
1.9. Con: Without any proof of god, praying is at best pointless and a waste of time.
1.9.1. Con: Praying gives someone of faith someone to talk to and is important to them, even if others see it as a waste of time.
1.9.1.1. Con: People do many things that are a waste of time, but give them comfort. People with OCD wash their hands hundreds of times a day for example. It does not stop it being a waste of time.
1.10. Con: Prayer sometimes involves a cost, a sacrifice or an offering. Even a church to pray in that needs to be maintained. This cost is a form of exploitation.
1.10.1. Con: Often small donations help to keep local religious facilities running.
1.10.1.1. Con: keeping religious facilities running is pointless , if there is no point to praying.
1.10.1.1.1. Con: Religious facilities are often beautiful.
1.10.1.1.1.1. Con: The buildings are beautiful without the need for the religion. The religion was just the authority of the time that exploited its people and paid for the beauty. The masons and artists knew this and took the opportunity to hide many symbols in the architecture, demonstrating that beauty exists despite and not because of the religion. Communist buildings and art are also beautiful, and they reject religion.
1.10.1.2. Pro: Religious ceremonies support the meditation effect of prayers.
1.10.1.2.1. Pro: The oral part of a ceremony involves unusual pronounciations.
1.10.1.2.2. Pro: There is often some kind of music.
1.10.1.2.3. Pro: The smell of incense supports a meditational atmosphere.
1.10.1.2.4. Con: meditation is different to prayer, it does not need god. the argument is about praying to god.
1.10.2. Con: Often the donations are voluntary.
1.10.2.1. Con: Even voluntary donations can cause hardship to the poor person who is morally obliged to give money to religion instead of feeding themselves or their children.
1.10.3. Pro: When such a donation or offering is expected and enforced by social pressure, it might exclude people from worship.
1.11. Pro: Prayer provides a focus for our desires. As a [visualization technique](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/living-forward/201806/3-effective-visualization-techniques-change-your-life) it can help us reach our goals.