Discussion Title: It’s good that different locales have different rules.

1. It’s good that different locales have different rules.
1.1. Con: A person traveling faces unpredictable circumstances.
1.1.1. Pro: They might unintentionally cause offense by acting as they normally would in other locales.
1.1.1.1. Con: Locals will generally understand that an individual is a traveller and therefore unfamiliar with some of the rules, and extend lenience accordingly.
1.1.2. Con: One of the benefits of traveling is to experience new norms and ideas.
1.1.3. Con: There are a range of resources, including the internet, travel books and local guides, which can be used by travellers to ensure that they understand local rules.
1.2. Con: Some places have rules that are explicitly racist, sexist, or otherwise contrary to human rights.
1.2.1. Pro: In some countries, homosexual behavior is [punishable](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_penalty_for_homosexuality) by the death penalty.
1.2.1.1. Pro: Homosexuality is [criminalized](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/jul/27/gay-relationships-still-criminalised-countries-report) in 72 countries.
1.2.2. Pro: The rights of Saudi Arabian [women](http://www.theweek.co.uk/60339/things-women-cant-do-in-saudi-arabia) are severely limited.
1.2.3. Con: This doesn't necessarily mean that the West should impose their values on others.
1.2.4. Con: The US is a good model. Different states can have different laws and rules in place, but the Constitution provides many guardrails against extreme abuses.
1.3. Pro: As preferences variate locally, also rules should.
1.4. Pro: The \(local\) variation of rules facilitates finding the best rules for the given problems. So, local institutions can learn from each other.
1.4.1. Pro: A solution to a particular problem in one locale could be ineffective in another locale due to cultural differences. Thus, variation of rules is necessary.
1.5. Pro: Experimentation can take place.
1.5.1. Con: This may result in some locales having sub-optimal or less efficient rules.
1.5.1.1. Con: This temporary inefficiency could yield a long-term benefit if experimentation leads to the discovery of an optimal way of doing things.
1.5.2. Pro: The results of different policies in comparable locations can indicate causation.
1.6. Pro: The more divided is a location the better democracy should be able to do it's work.
1.7. Pro: Different lifestyles can be supported.
1.7.1. Pro: If every culture had the same rules, humanity would be uniform and dull.
1.7.2. Con: When the acceptability of different lifestyles is bound up in location rather than determined by individual preference, only individuals lucky enough to have access to a locale which fits with their lifestyle preference benefit.
1.7.3. Pro: Different humans are driven to experience significantly different things in their lives.
1.7.4. Con: Differentiation leads to people feeling unwelcome in some places.
1.8. Con: The impetus to deliver justice is muted by the opportunity to emigrate.
1.8.1. Pro: Leaving a dangerous situation may be easier than improving the situation.
1.8.1.1. Pro: People with means are often the most able to leave without incurring personal disasters.
1.8.2. Con: The best approach to improving a situation may be to leave, stabilize, plan, and then address.
1.8.3. Pro: When more people leave, there is less pressure to improve the locale to the standards they would have preferred.
1.8.4. Pro: The flight of human, intellectual, and capital resources can plunge the locale into an even more desperate equilibrium.
1.9. Con: The burden of learning rules is preposterously large.
1.9.1. Pro: When rules can’t be learned, their selective enforcement becomes an arbitrary system of control.
1.9.2. Con: One doesn't need to learn all the rules of a new locale, only those that apply to them.
1.9.3. Con: Individuals are not generally obliged to travel to locales with radically different rules. If they wish to do so, they can make an informed decision which factors in the rule-learning burden.