Discussion Title: It is better to discuss topics in person, rather than through online text-based mediums.

1. It is better to discuss topics in person, rather than through online text-based mediums.
1.1. Con: Face-to-face discussions often end up in quarrels, personal attacks and hasty judgments.
1.1.1. Con: The unpleasantness of internet discussions can be even higher than face to face discussions. Internet trolling is common and involves unpleasantness that is hard to find in daily life.
1.2. Con: Debating online, over text, means your opponent can't jump in while you're speaking. You can finish what you have to say and have as much time to think through it as you need.
1.3. Pro: Face to face, people have access to gestures, drawing shapes into the air, which can be very helpful. The addition of facial expressions and voice tonality makes them less likely to misunderstand each other.
1.4. Con: Online topics allow the whole world to participate, whereas only a few can participate face-to-face, this encourages more diverse input in online discussions.
1.5. Con: Face-to-face discussions allow for less time to reflect on, and prepare, responses.
1.5.1. Pro: Less time for preparation means less time for manipulation
1.6. Con: Face-to-face discussions are not usually recorded, whereas in online discussions, what is communicated is stored.
1.6.1. Con: The constant worry of having a screenshot made public might cause people to self-censor their responses in written communication.
1.6.2. Pro: Some one can not claim you said something that you didn't unless they can somehow edit your words.
1.6.3. Pro: Online discussions can be more logical because you can organize it and  look into the past and this can help stop the repeating of the same information in different ways.
1.6.4. Con: Reviewing past responses too much can contort their meaning
1.6.4.1. Con: Relying on memory that is constantly revisited can also distort the meaning.
1.6.5. Pro: Allows subjects to reflect on what they write
1.7. Pro: More exposure between subjects allows for a deeper level of communication and understanding
1.8. Pro: Face-to-face discussions are more engaging.
1.8.1. Con: Subjects can be intimidated by face-to-face discussion. Online communication provides some distance for a subject that wishes less exposure