Discussion Title: It is okay to fart in public.

1. It is okay to fart in public.
1.1. Con: It shows that you are not courteous and that you don't respect others in your surroundings.
1.1.1. Con: Actions that a group of social individuals consider as lack of respect are culturally learned from early childhood on. There are societies where farting is culturally accepted more. An example is the Chinese culture. There are cultures where people fart after eating to express thanks and appreciation.  An example of a culture like this are Inuit people of Canada, who behave like this because of a culturally learned and accepted table manner.
1.2. Con: It is not society's custom to fart in public. From early childhood on every member of society learned the social norm to surpress a fart in public, because it is not a desired behaviour of an individual within a social group of most societies.
1.2.1. Con: Social norms, and especially those related to human biology, change over time. Over the past century, the [menstrual taboo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Menstrual_taboo) has become weaker in many societies, for example.
1.2.2. Con: Norms are constantly changing, just because it wasn't ok doesn't mean that it shouldn't be ok.
1.3. Con: Stinky farts can make other people miserable.
1.3.1. Pro: People have sensitive noses which can make them feel nauseous.
1.4. Pro: Some people have medical issues which require them to fart, them being ostracized for it not being accepted is unfair.
1.4.1. Con: Even if farting is generally not acceptable in public, exceptions can be made where necessary. This is a common practice that doesn't warrant making farting generally acceptable.
1.4.1.1. Pro: In the same vein, it is acceptable for people with [Tourette syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tourette_syndrome) to swear in public as they cannot help it. Yet it isn't generally acceptable to swear for everybody.
1.5. Pro: Farting is a liberating and positive feeling, while holding it in isn't.
1.5.1. Pro: If you keep it in then you may get a gas bubble.
1.5.1.1. Pro: Gas bubbles are uncomfortable and sometimes painful.
1.6. Pro: Farting is a great source of humor.
1.6.1. Con: Most people do not consider farting in public, especially among people who are not close with each other, funny.
1.7. Pro: Farting is a natural thing that our bodies do.
1.7.1. Pro: Every human farts occasionally. There are no humans who don't fart in their life.
1.8. Con: Farting can result in embarrassment for others and ruin relationships.
1.8.1. Con: Farting in front of your partner can strengthen your relationship by showing that you are comfortable sharing these sorts of bodily functions.
1.9. Con: The sound is distracting and inappropriate, especially in professional environments.
1.9.1. Con: You can fart without making any noise.
1.9.1.1. Con: Silent farts can also be distracting due to their tendency to be the most smelly.
1.10. Pro: More people farting in public can make it more normal for others to do the same and not feel as embarrassed, making it less of a taboo.
1.10.1. Con: Getting rid of taboos is not inherently positive. Just because something can be normalized doesn't mean it should be.