Discussion Title: It is okay to subpoena a translator to expose subject matter between world leaders.

1. It is okay to subpoena a translator to expose the subject matter of meetings between world leaders.
1.1. Pro: In principle, this is not different from subpoena-ing a tape recording or transcript, for which there is an established precedent for being acceptable.
1.1.1. Con: Transcripts themselves are objects and have no rights, like a human translator.  So a difference does exist.
1.1.2. Con: The principle does not apply.  When world leaders agree to meet, they set rules. The rules can forbid recording and require translators never say anything about what they heard. Translators record nothing. The translator's memory is incidental and not the purpose of having translators. The translator's memory and deliberate recording of event are not comparable in this context.
1.1.2.1. Con: Incidental records can be subpoenaed just like any other record. The fact that the memory of the translator was not intended for that purpose is irrelevant.
1.1.2.2. Con: World leaders can set whatever rules they please but they can't necessarily prevent other parties from using their powers to investigate.
1.2. Con: There would be no way of knowing if the translator is telling the truth or not about what took place. Doing so would politicize the translation process, which is highly undesirable.
1.2.1. Pro: Translations are [not neutral](http://www.yorku.ca/brmossop/SociallyNeutralDefinition.htm), they are always influenced by society and contemporary norms.
1.3. Con: This legally compromises the translator even though they do not bear any burden of responsibility for any content.
1.3.1. Con: People who witness an event or conversation, even if not having any responsibility with it, are also often subpoenaed in court to testify about what they saw or hear. There is no reason why translators should be different.
1.4. Con: This violates a right to privacy that includes the use of translators to facilitate a private conversation between persons that is otherwise not recorded.
1.5. Con: The jeopardizes translators by tempting world leaders to silence them after a sensitive exchange.
1.6. Con: World leaders ought to have a special "translator-client" privilege for privacy.
1.6.1. Pro: A translator's professional ethics demand confidentiality regarding content.
1.7. Pro: The benefit of a government having this additional power to police it's officers is valuable, on the balance.
1.7.1. Con: A degree of secrecy from the public is beneficial to keep the peace.
1.7.1.1. Pro: Kennedy, in the Cuban missile crisis for example, accepted to remove missiles from Turkey in exchange for the removal of Soviet missiles from Cuba. This wasn't made public during the Cuban missile crisis though.
1.7.2. Pro: It is absolutely necessary in issues of national security, which this clearly is for the USA, for a government to be able to make such subpoenas when it suspects criminal or treasonous activity. The perpetrator cannot and should not be able to block actions or laws that might expose them. Nor should they be able to arrange government or the courts to ease or eliminate their responsibility in such acts.  If the translator's testimony exposes evidence of treason or a crime, it should be used.
1.7.3. Pro: Yes, while a president may enter into an executive agreement with another country, such a thing must be aboveboard and known by Congress.

A President unwilling to share what transpires in private wants to be an autocrat.

Getting the translator to tell what was said is a protection for our country.
1.8. Con: This practice can result in language barriers hampering foreign relations because translators and/or leaders don't want to be compromised.
1.8.1. Pro: This would lead a lot of world leaders to work without translators, when possible.
1.8.1.1. Pro: This might lead to more misunderstandings as many world leaders do not speak a shared language well enough.
1.9. Pro: In principle, our government officials are elected for the express purpose of making these kinds of judgments. It should be left to them to decide when this activity is prudent.
1.9.1. Con: The government should never be left to its own devices nor should blind faith be placed in it to make policies or decisions that affect all of us long-term without full disclosure.
1.9.2. Con: Rules and regulations are in place to ensure individuals don't make subjective decisions.
1.9.2.1. Con: No. They are not. It's common not to have explicit rules for a situation. Whether to subpoena a translator is clearly one of these times.