Discussion Title: It's better to search bitter (maybe) truth than live in a lie to make life easier and more happy.

1. It's better to search bitter \(maybe\) truth than live in lie to make life easier and more happy.
1.1. Con: There are some truths people might not be able to process without damaging themselves. Some truths cause psychological complexes. It is better for a living organism to live a psychological healthy life, because this makes the organism function more effectively. Thus, in some cases, ignorance is preferable, as in some cases it makes the organism more effective in its function.
1.1.1. Con: What is of value to humanity as a whole is of more value than what is of value to the individual alone. Thus the psychological health of the individual, while having some value to humanity, does not warrant a categorical imperative. If a person has the opportunity to trade their personal psychological health for knowledge that will net more value to humanity than his/her psych-health would have been, then he/she has a moral obligation to make that sacrifice; to embrace suffering.
1.1.2. Con: If a truth causes damage, it may be because the person does not have the right framework to process it, i.e. does not know the whole truth. A situation that is potentially damaging can also be a blessing if we know what caused it and can address the root of the problem.
1.2. Pro: “The Truth is the antidote to suffering. The reason for that is because the Truth puts reality behind you, so that you can face the reality that's coming straight at you without becoming weak and degenerating and becoming resentful and wishing for the destruction of Being, because that's the final Hell.” - Jordan B. Peterson
1.3. Pro: It won't increase happiness but it might decrease suffering. Look negative ethics or negative utilitarianism.
1.4. Pro: Truth always comes to light
1.4.1. Con: One can decide to ignore the truth.
1.4.2. Con: There is no way to prove whether this claim is true.
1.4.3. Con: Sometimes the truth does not come to light until years later or perhaps never - unsolved murder mysteries being an example.
1.4.4. Con: You can't know if truth always comes to light because you can't see the truth in the dark and never would've known if it ends up not coming to light.
1.5. Pro: Truth is a more reliable basis for personal growth and important life decisions because conclusions based on true information tend to be a much more accurate basis for decisions
1.6. Pro: Truth is one of the biggest and most important ideals in life
1.6.1. Pro: A life with only happiness is one in ignorance. Being blissfully ignorant about the suffering in the world, and the problems it faces, and the amount of knowledge yet hidden from your horizon, is a life without challenges, and a life without challenges is one without purpose or direction.
1.6.2. Con: In social life, lies are essential for making social interactions run smoothly \("pro-social lies"\). Especially in romantic relationships, a certain degree of deceit is required. [livescience.com](https://www.livescience.com/46992-how-lying-affects-social-networks.html)
1.7. Pro: Living in a lie will inevitably result in wrong decisions being made on wrong premises, which will make life harder.
1.8. Pro: Dealing with bitter truth makes people better and stronger
1.8.1. Pro: Not just it but truth makes people more tuned with reality, giving us means to have good choices. Truth, according to [classical philosophy school](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transcendentals), is also Good. Wise people are good to others, making their character beautiful as well.
1.9. Con: When we're thinking about difficult things we are less happy
1.9.1. Con: Life isn't about being happy only for the sake of happiness, it's about meaningfulness and purpose.
1.9.1.1. Pro: Everyone will at some point inevitably be faced with difficult circumstances and experiences in life, and they cannot be ignored forever.
1.9.1.2. Pro: Facing the difficult things and truths is an act of courage, and overcoming them makes you stronger and more able to overcome more of them in the future. This builds your character, and leads to a meaningful life.
1.9.2. Con: To be happy is to be selfish.
1.9.2.1. Con: To be happy means to have high levels of [endorphins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endorphins). Whether or not this depends on selfishness is disputable.
1.9.3. Con: The happiness obtained by one who overcomes difficult times provides greater reward.
1.10. Con: Difficult truth doesn't help us in living day by day
1.10.1. Con: Keeping to live in a lie only stacks up more and more until it becomes unbearable. It's better to face the difficult truth now and get the suffering over with.
1.10.2. Con: Ease of day to day living is ethically less important than overcoming the delusions which plague humanity.
1.11. Con: Bitter truth mekes people unfriendly
1.11.1. Con: This is different from person to person, some prefer to know the truth and some prefer to avoid the emotional consequences that might come with it
1.11.1.1. Pro: Neuroticism is a personality trait that's one of the five traits in the [Big Five](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Five_personality_traits) model, also called OCEAN as an acronym of the traits. This is the most used and accepted personality model in modern psychology. Neuroticism means, that the higher you score, the more mentally unstable you are, which are shown in these difficult situations. According to their scores, therefore, people will differ in regards to finding out the truth or avoiding the emotional consequences.
1.12. Pro: Living in truth makes life less complicated
1.12.1. Con: This is not true for everyone,

The complexity of the truth in your life is dependent on your surroundings, such as your country and culture. Lies can be both complicated and simple.
1.13. Con: Covering truth helps people survive difficult times