Discussion Title: K-12 teachers are already paid enough in America

1. K-12 teachers are already paid enough in America
1.1. Con: Teachers work very hard at an important job and deserve higher pay.
1.2. Con: The demands on teachers have been increasing over the years without a similar increase in pay.
1.2.1. Pro: This undervalues teachers, which can deter younger generations from entering the profession.
1.3. Pro: The market sets the rate for teachers depending on supply and demand of qualified candidates.
1.3.1. Con: The market does not dictate what ought be.
1.3.1.1. Con: There is no better way to determine price than a competitive, non-monopolized market.
1.3.1.1.1. Con: Markets are not guaranteed to be non-monopolized or competitive.
1.3.1.2. Pro: High demand for a small number of teaching positions \(according to the market driven argument\) could mean teachers being payed below the poverty-line or the regional cost of living.
1.3.1.3. Con: “Ought” in what sense? One of markets' core purposes is exactly that - to identify what a price ought to be so that, the provider of a given service doesn't allocate the necessary skills and resources elsewhere..
1.3.2. Con: Markets are fallible.
1.3.3. Con: Budgetary restraints limit the effectiveness of market competition.
1.3.3.1. Pro: Budget variations cause over-saturation and under-saturation of the supply of qualified candidates, concentrating the supply in areas based on monetary demand not demand of education.
1.3.3.1.1. Con: Demand on education affects the overall monetary demands of a region.
1.3.3.2. Pro: Budgetary variations cause a disparity in educational quality that favors the well-funded programs. Thus prevent equal-opportunity.
1.3.3.3. Con: The market should determine the budget.
1.3.3.3.1. Con: The private/public educational divide limits the effectiveness of the market.
1.4. Con: One in 5 teachers [have to work second jobs](https://www.edweek.org/ew/articles/2018/06/19/to-make-ends-meet-1-in-5.html) to make ends meet.
1.4.1. Con: This shows that there is more supply than demand for skilled candidates, not that they should be paid more.
1.4.1.1. Con: In most American cities the reverse is true. We are in the middle of an extreme teacher shortage.
1.4.1.1.1. Con: There isn't a shortage, but rather an [unwillingness](https://www.currentaffairs.org/2018/05/there-is-no-teacher-shortage/) by the states to pay market rate.
1.4.1.1.1.1. Con: The parent claim does not actually refute the grandparent, it merely parses semantics. There is a shortage, even according to the parent claim, in the sense that there is a demand for teachers, but that demand is not being met because there is insufficient incentive to become part of the "supply" of teachers.
1.4.1.2. Con: If teachers were paid more in areas with high demand and low supply, the supply would increase because these areas usually are low-paying. Candidates would be attracted from places with high supply.
1.5. Con: Many people do not become teachers because the pay is too low and they can make more money elsewhere. Raising teacher's pay would attract high-quality individuals to the profession.
1.5.1. Con: If the issue is with quality, the bar for teachers should be raised higher and market rates will adjust accordingly. Simply giving all teachers higher pay now is not the answer.
1.5.1.1. Con: There are too few people looking to be teachers as it is. Increasing the bar will lead to increased teacher shortages. Many cities are currently recruiting any and all college graduates into the profession out of necessity.
1.5.1.2. Con: The bar for teachers is already mountainous.
1.5.1.3. Con: If we don't allow pay to increase now, good teachers may leave the profession.
1.6. Pro: The money to pay teachers more has to come from somewhere, and the US cannot afford it.
1.6.1. Con: Money dedicated to other government expenditures can be redirected toward teacher pay and educational purposes.
1.6.1.1. Pro: The US military spending [is extremely high.](https://www.nationalpriorities.org/campaigns/military-spending-united-states/) If it was reduced, the government could easily afford new investments in education.
1.6.2. Con: Seeing as a corporate gains tax could easily pay for tuition-free public college, if we truly wanted to increase teacher's wages we could find a way to pay for it.
1.7. Pro: Other government-funded positions, such as police officers, require more work at worse hours, involve more stress, and have significantly higher risk of death or injury. These jobs should be paid more.
1.7.1. Con: Teaching is an extremely high stress profession, new teachers are regularly burnt out by the stress.
1.7.2. Con: Teachers and police officers can both be paid more.