Discussion Title: Leggings are Pants

1. Leggings are Pants
1.1. Con: Leggings are leggings and pants are pants. There exist different words for them for a reason.
1.1.1. Con: Then jeans are not pants, because we have a different word for them.
1.1.2. Con: Then slacks are not pants, because we have a different word for them.
1.1.3. Pro: Functionally, the two differ in meaningful ways. Pants/trousers are generally assumed to fulfill a functional specification in terms of durability and/or code of a higher order than leggings.
1.2. Pro: They cover the same section of the body as other pants.
1.3. Pro: Merriam Webster defines 'pants' as "an outer garment covering each leg separately and usually extending from the waist to the ankle". Leggings are a subcategory of pants, as they fit this definition yet also have their own unique qualities.
1.4. Con: They are immodest and full length pants are modest, therefore they are not pants.
1.4.1. Con: This is entirely subjective. Tight jeans, for example, would be seen as more sexualised and revealing by many.
1.4.2. Con: This is a circular argument with an unexplained definition forming the basis for the conclusion. There is nothing inherently modest about pants: jeans can be tight and have immodest holes in them, for example, yet they are still classed as pants.
1.5. Con: Many work dress codes don't allow them to be worn in place of pants.
1.5.1. Con: This is often rather because leggings are seen as informal and casual wear; jeans are rarely allowed in workplaces either, despite being trousers.
1.6. Pro: They are made from opaque fabric.
1.6.1. Con: Many tights are also made from opaque fabric; this does not, however, mean that they are considered trousers.
1.6.2. Con: This is not universally true.
1.7. Pro: I will physically fight anyone who says that they aren't pants, and I will win. I will be wearing leggings as pants and will therefore have a full range of motion thus giving me the combative advantage.
1.7.1. Con: And I will fight you wearing a kilt, and because that kilt also gives me full range of motion, I will call it leggings, and ergo pants. Plaid pants.
1.8. Pro: My gym has a sign that says no pants no service. They continue to give me service when I wear leggings to the gym.
1.8.1. Con: This does not necessarily prove that leggings can be classed as trousers. The gym in question may well have been simply expressing that anything too revealing of the bottom half of one's body cannot be worn to the gym; since trousers/pants are usually a safe bet for 'covered' clothing, they used them as their paradigm.
1.9. Con: Pants do generally not fit as slim as leggings.
1.10. Con: In some anglophone countries, they are called 'tights'. This suggests that they are closer in definition to tights than to proper trousers/pants.