Discussion Title: Lottery should be an integral component of democratic political systems

1. Lottery should be an integral component of democratic political systems
1.1. Pro: Minority interests, like big corporations, that can be very influential via lobbying career-politicians need to be much more transparent about their interests, if they are to gain anything.
1.1.1. Pro: This has the further uptake that such interests transform to become more society-centric. Instead of profit and pleasing shareholders, corporations would be incentivised to work in the interests of society at large.
1.1.2. Con: Inexperienced politicians drawn by lottery are likely to be more influenced by those with knowledge in particular interest areas.
1.1.2.1. Con: Being influenced is not necessarily a bad thing. It's a good thing to change one's mind for the right reasons. Elected party politicians are not always open to relevant knowledge \(and thus often lack flexibility on certain important areas\) because taking this into account might harm their careers, in which they have already invested a lot, hence their 'experience'.
1.1.2.2. Con: This problem, if it exists under a lottery system, already exists in the current election system. A whole lobby-industry around bigger centers of power, such as Brussels, underlines this point.
1.2. Pro: It's a very scalable system, as long as statistical representation is maintained. So it can be run on a local, municipal, regional, provincial, national, continental or even global level, without many changes and without hurting the democratic underpinnings of the lottery.
1.2.1. Pro: Even better it can be run in parallel on every level.
1.3. Pro: By randomly nominating or selecting a person from a qualified or valued group of individuals we are able to remove the ego & advertising that so often dominates a political campaign.
1.3.1. Pro: Our current political system selects for certain personality traits in politicians that are not necessarily good for rational decision making. Successful politicians must dominate their opponents and raise funds from individuals and organizations with self-interests in the election outcome. This drowns out the voices of experts, such as scientists, who are not interested in, or adept at, attaining political power.
1.3.2. Pro: Prior pre-qualification will ensure the necessary knowledge of such nominees.
1.3.3. Con: There will be strong resistance against a qualification exercise, on grounds that in today’s direct democracy everybody can participate.
1.3.4. Con: A desire for power is necessary to be a good politician.
1.3.4.1. Pro: Desire motivates to outsmart opponents. This is especially relevant when dealing with non-democratic states.
1.3.4.1.1. Con: Elites in non-democratic states can feel dangerously threatened by power hungry elected politicians, who can paint an unrealistic, negative / enemy image of a specific non-democratic state in order to gain popular support and win elections.
1.3.4.2. Pro: With desire comes vision for change. This is facilitating reform.
1.3.4.2.1. Con: Reform and change are not goals in themselves. Government should be about the general interest, in the short and long term.
1.3.4.2.2. Con: If a certain change or reform is seen as necessary by the people, even though this could be painful in the short term, this could be put into action much faster and in a much more sensible way by a group of citizens drafted by lot, than by a certain group of elected politicians who are \(seen as\) a self-serving tribe.
1.3.4.3. Con: With such desire for power, comes corruption.
1.3.4.3.1. Con: Corruption undermines ones power base because one becomes dependent on the one that offers the bribe.
1.3.4.3.2. Pro: Receiving funds is necessary to distribute them to loyal elites.
1.3.5. Con: Randomly drawn people, once given power, will develop similar superiority traits as career politicians in a short time.
1.3.5.1. Con: This model makes making a career in politics impossible. You can only hold the position for a limited amount of time. This means that the feeling of superiority can only be sustained for a short while. Career politicians can sustain it by feeding on the praises of his voters.
1.3.5.1.1. Con: Career politicians are better politicians.
1.3.5.1.1.1. Con: This would require an actual metric to evaluate the quality of a politician.
1.3.5.1.1.2. Pro: Career politicians aquire skills how to deal with other actors throughout their career.
1.3.5.1.1.2.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.2.
1.3.5.1.1.2.2. Con: The skills acquired by politicians focus on how to deal with other politicians who also have acquired these skills. It's a zero sum game.
1.3.5.1.1.3. Pro: Career politicians have a vision for change; otherwise they wouldn't join politics.
1.3.5.1.1.3.1. Con: Voters may agree with parts of several different visions, and thus find it too difficult to identify one vision that sufficiently fits their own set of opinions, leading to frustration.
1.3.5.1.1.3.2. Con: Visions of change can be important inputs for public debate, but there is no reason why we specifically need career politicians to advocate visions, debate them, and decide on their implementation.
1.3.5.1.1.4. Pro: -> See 1.3.4.2.
1.3.5.1.1.5. Con: Carreer politicians are more concerned with their re-election or their job prospects after non-reelection than the general good.
1.3.5.1.1.6. Con: Career politicians often show their true colours when they quit politics and start working for exactly those corporations which they lambasted on supposedly ideological principles which turn out to be just pretend, mercenary and self-serving.
1.3.6. Pro: Randomly drawn representatives in a sortition democracy will need to rotate very fast, otherwise we get the same elitist issues as with elected career politicians.
1.3.7. Con: What filters the eligible population for those that are "qualified" or "valued" ?
1.4. Con: For democracy, lotteries can be applied where we want representativeness in decision making but not for administrative appointments where we want the person with the highest job competency.
1.4.1. Con: While it seems certainly true that it would be unwise to draft citizens by lot for administrative functions, citizens drafted by lot would, through a process of deliberation, still be the most qualified people to make the decision on who would be the most competent person for a specific administrative position.
1.5. Pro: The current system has created a lot of cynicism against politics. A system based on lottery would bring common people to power, thus alleviating this tension.
1.5.1. Con: Random common people determined by lottery will be seen to lack the specialist knowledge to make good decisions for a complex society.
1.5.2. Pro: This system would genuinely be democratic: a situation in which all citizens have equal influence on public policy.
1.5.2.1. Pro: Lottery allows the chance for everyone to take part in the process of making laws, a process, which affects everyone. If you are affected by a decision, you should have a say in it
1.5.2.2. Con: Democracy promises a certain amount of agency to the electorate. Lottery is incompatible with agency.
1.5.2.3. Con: Except that not all citizens would have an equal influence on public policy. All citizens would have \(theoretically\) an equal chance of being drawn, and then* an influence on public policy.
1.5.3. Pro: Right and left wing populist often shout that '[elites](https://www.vice.com/en_au/article/8ge3ap/who-exactly-are-the-elites-rich-populist-politicians-are-complaining-about)' are running the country and that they would replace them. Lottery would solve this automatically.
1.6. Con: Those in power - whose consent is needed to change the rules to lottery principles - will not give up power.
1.6.1. Con: This can be assumed in any form of democracy. Yet it does not happen.
1.6.2. Con: Major crises external to and/or internally within the current electoral system might force those in power to give it up bit by bit, steadily weakening their position and making way for sortition.
1.7. Pro: Sortition \(lottery based selection\) costs less than elections, e.g. nothing to print.
1.8. Pro: A system based on lottery would effectively ban career-politicians. At least from gaining too much influence.
1.8.1. Con: Future politicians in a decentralised democratic system will not be comparable to today's power wielders, they will be activists creating and promoting new ideas for society.
1.8.2. Con: -> See 1.3.5.1.1.
1.8.3. Pro: In a party system, politicians' priority is to keep their well-paid job and grow their power.
1.8.4. Pro: Party politicians will take the opposite position to their political competitors, and try to "win" personally by all means including emotionality \(e.g. fears, pride, ...\) even if the position is rationally not defendable.
1.8.5. Pro: An attractive feature of sortition is that if political leaders were replaced on a regular basis with randomly selected citizens, it would reduce institutionalised corruption, party apathy and complacency as well as a history of party led entitlement, lack of choice and variety in political ideas in platforms. It could be argued that replacing politicians in this way would solve such problems.
1.8.6. Pro: Politicians are often forced to make decisions which compromise their own beliefs and what they may think is best through the pressures of future elections, fitting into their party apparatus, pleasing those who funded their campaigns and vote sharing and voting compromise. The time lost in the voting process, image forming and maintenance and focusing on approval would be better suited to forming good law and policy.
1.9. Con: There's no way of ensuring capable and knowledgeable people in office.
1.9.1. Con: Representatives, whether elected or drafted by lot, do not only need to be or become knowledgeable on the specific topic at hand, they also need to be well aware of how life is for the "regular, average citizen", and how decisions work out "on the ground". Thus, that kind of knowledge is also important, and a group of citizens drafted by lot guarantee having this kind of knowledge much better than a group of elected politicians usually do.
1.9.2. Pro: Lottery should be used to find representatives for the people when it comes to democratic rule making and supervision, but not to appoint people into government.
1.9.3. Pro: In today’s specialized world most random people would be not qualified enough, on a specific topic, to judge with sufficient knowledge.
1.9.3.1. Con: Politicians often rely on outside expertise. Even unskilled politicians can do so.
1.9.4. Pro: -> See 1.3.5.1.1.
1.9.5. Pro: -> See 1.3.4.
1.9.6. Con: You don't have to: a statistical representation of the population will result in solid policies for the collective good.
1.9.6.1. Con: There is no agreed measure of what is a "solid" political policy.
1.9.6.2. Pro: Other forms of participatory democracy have shown this to be the case, like in [Porto Alegre in Brazil](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2012/sep/10/participatory-democracy-in-porto-alegre).
1.9.6.3. Con: This is a statistical fallacy. To show why I will use some statistical terminology here.
The "expected value" of the characteristics of a sampled individual are equal to the "population average" for those characteristics. But the concept of [variance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Variance) allows for sampled individuals to have characteristics that deviate from the population average.
1.9.6.3.1. Con: There is always error and from many sources. A sampled individual could make a wrong choice, e.g. out of cognitive limitations. Yes, a sampling error will also be present but it is a known and very small factor as confidence level can be set to say 95% or 99% simply by choosing an appropriate sample size.
1.9.7. Con: Only collegial bodies are allotted, not executive positions, which are elected \(by the allotted legislature, not by the whole census\).
1.9.8. Con: For offices where capability and knowledge is required, such as an army general for example, elections can still be held.
1.9.9. Con: A single incompetent individual would be a small voice in a greater allotted group of people.
1.9.10. Pro: The random selection of incapable politicians would likely result in instability and minimal progress.
1.9.10.1. Con: The citizens drafted by lot are not politicians: they are and remain citizens, temporarily taking on a role as democratic decision makers.
1.9.10.2. Con: Instability and stagnation is exactly what we are experiencing more and more over the last decades in electoral systems. Experiments with sortition, like the ones in Ireland and Australia, are showing exactly the opposite of instability and stagnation: they show breakthrough on topics that were too difficult to handle by elected party politicians.
1.9.10.3. Con: There is no proof of instability and lack of progress because of citizens drafted by lot who supposedly would be incompetent. Not only do experiments show the opposite, especially in developing countries the electoral process causes stagnation even when elections are held in a fair way, because elections unnecessarily deepen tribal divisions and thus cause instability and violence.
1.9.11. Pro: perhaps the lottery could be to identify the next group of incumbants but prior to their term they get an education on the system and a year to come up to speed with current machinations.
1.9.12. Pro: Representatives who are inherently apathetic, indifferent or incompetent, will not exert a positive influence on process or outcome of government.
1.9.12.1. Con: A lot of apathy and indifference is caused by the current electoral system where voters are reduced to ticking a box once every four or five years, after being bombarded by political commercials. Citizens drafted by lot feel important and feel that they are treated as humans, thus will respond in a more positive way, and will usually be or become highly motivated to contribute for the common good.
1.9.13. Con: Citizens drafted by lot usually start out as being not very knowledgeable on a specific topic, but gain the necessary knowledge during the process of conversation with other drafted citizens and by being informed by experts.
1.10. Pro: -> See 1.5.2.
1.11. Con: Representatives would not be held accountable for their actions.
1.11.1. Con: More important than holding someone accountable, is being able to swiftly overturn a wrong decision and replacing it with a better one. A decision that is widely seen as wrong, can much more quickly be identified by a group of citizens drafted by lot who are specifically concerned with agenda setting, than in the current electoral system where admitting a mistake and changing one's mind can be experienced as a loss of face by a politician, or be portrayed as a weakness.
1.11.2. Con: Sometimes this can be a good thing.
1.11.3. Con: This is not necessarily true.
1.11.3.1. Pro: Laws can be passed to make individuals responsible.
1.11.4. Pro: Representatives can blame their incompetence for failure and therewith deflect from direct criticism.
1.11.5. Con: Elected representatives can be held accountable, and are held accountable, but that has not stopped them from making bad decisions, i.e. decisions that are not in the interest of the common good.
1.12. Pro: The monolithic nature of established political parties will erode, progressively giving ground to reflecting a more nuances and less entrenched and less dogmatic continuum of view expression and implementation
1.13. Con: Political parties would cease to exist.
1.13.1. Con: Political parties disappearing is a good thing. They make society more adversarial.
1.13.2. Pro: It might be possible to imagine a new kind of political party based on sortition
1.13.3. Pro: Political party ranks serve as training ground for future politicians.
1.13.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.5.1.1.
1.13.3.2. Con: Municipal and regional administrative positions could also serve as training grounds for future professionals in higher level administrative positions.
1.13.3.3. Con: There will be less need for politicians as we know them today, because the number of elections will decline.
1.13.3.4. Con: While the role for political parties as training grounds will decline, the deliberative decision making process by more and more citizens drafted by lot from the local to the national \(or even super-national\) level will increase the general public's involvement in and knowledge of the political process, and therefore strengthen democracy.
1.13.4. Con: A lottery system is compatible with the party system.
If someone is selected by lottery to be a politician, she could have party affiliation.
1.13.4.1. Con: There is no party in power with randomly selected representatives.
1.13.5. Con: They would cease to exist in their current form: as fundraising and voteraising apparatuses that consolidate power and career-politicians. They would most likely evolve in lobby groups.
1.13.5.1. Pro: It is quite conceivable parties would become much larger as to influence a larger part of the population of their programme.
1.13.6. Con: When elections were introduced in the late 18th century, political parties did not yet exist. The electoral system was not designed with political parties in mind; they were created later on.
1.14. Con: With ballots you can recount votes. With lottery on a great number if people, how can you guarantee that they had not been hacked? It seems difficult to ensure that the lottery on great number of people is really random.
1.14.1. Con: In the NEO blockchain, for example, every block has a random number attached to it, and any application that want to use a random thing can use this number as a secure source of randomness.
1.14.2. Con: As long as it is computer generated the code can afterwards be made public and it can be shown to truly be not random at all because it is computer coding; however, it will depend on input values that cannot be influenced and should logically constantly be changing.
1.14.3. Con: The process does not necessary have to be done using a computer. Blindly picking balls with numbers zero to nine, by a human or a lottery machine, could be used to compose a larger number, corresponding to specific citizens.