Discussion Title: Medical cannabis patients should be allowed to grow their own medicine.

1. Medical cannabis patients should be allowed to grow their own medicine.
1.1. Con: Governments do not have sufficient power to regulate the cannabis if patients can grow it themselves.
1.1.1. Pro: Governments cannot regulate the amount of cannabis a patient uses if they are growing it themselves.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Depending on the illness patterns different amounts of medication might be sufficient.
1.1.1.2. Pro: Overconsumption cannot be excluded when the amount is not regulated.
1.1.2. Pro: There is less control over who has access to cannabis.
1.1.2.1. Pro: Patients can give friends and family members access to cannabis even though they are not patients themselves.
1.1.2.2. Pro: Patients can create a side income by producing for the black market.
1.2. Pro: It allows each patient to find and grow the strain which has the best possible cannabinoid profile for their condition.
1.2.1. Con: Pharmacists and doctors know more about how different cannabinoids interact with other medication the patients takes.
1.2.1.1. Con: Pharmacists and Doctors have little evidence based research to work from at this stage. Patients should be able to grow what works for them, if they choose to do so.
1.3. Pro: Growing your own cannabis is way cheaper than having to buy it from others.
1.3.1. Con: Growing cannabis on your own can lead to lower quality products.
1.3.1.1. Pro: Professionals have studied about marijuana, such as at this [post-grad course](https://www.standard.co.uk/news/world/university-to-offer-postgraduate-course-in-marijuana-production-a3640001.html) on marijuana production.
1.3.1.2. Con: Growing your own allows you to use the entire plant; flower, leaves, stems, and trim.
1.3.1.3. Pro: Growing your own cannabis diminishes the quality and safety of the product. Nowadays everyone is thinking they are specialists but there is a lot more to concern than just plant it, water it and dry it.
1.3.1.4. Con: Cannabis is no harder to grow than tomatoes and many people have been successfully growing their own for decades as a way of opting out of the black market.
1.4. Con: By now there are [150,000](https://www.inquisitr.com/4667846/the-legal-cannabis-market-is-predicted-to-triple-in-size-by-2021/) jobs in the US cannabis industry. Patients growing for themselves puts those jobs at risk.
1.5. Con: Growing your own cannabis could create trespassing and theft problems.
1.5.1. Pro: If people know that people who use cannabis for medical purposes can also grow it, they may think that robbing them would be an easy way to get hold of cannabis.
1.5.2. Con: In a legal market, there is little financial interest to steal cannabis and in a legal market the victim of the theft can report the crime to the police. In an illegal market they can't.
1.6. Con: -> See 1.3.1.
1.7. Pro: Growing their own cannabis allows patients total control over what they ingest.
1.7.1. Pro: You can follow strict rules from a competent authority that assures you that you have the right quality and process.
1.8. Pro: Cannabis is easy to cultivate.
1.8.1. Con: Drying the cannabis is very smelly.