Discussion Title: Military conscription should apply to men and women equally.

1. Military conscription should apply to men and women equally.
1.1. Con: There are physical differences between the sexes that make this impractical.
1.1.1. Con: Today's military relies less on physical strength.
1.1.2. Con: There are physical differences that also make this practical. It is simply a case of correct role assignment. This question states nothing of front line combat roles, but is limited to military conscription.
1.1.2.1. Pro: The military has plenty of roles that don't require exceptional strength, size, or endurance.
1.1.3. Con: Even though there are physical differences between the average man and the average woman, there is significant overlap, making differences between individuals way less significant than [averages](http://www.warandgender.com/wggendif.htm).
1.1.4. Pro: Men are, on average, stronger and have more endurance, which can be helpful.
1.1.4.1. Con: This is true, however this does not affect the question of military conscription applying to women as well as men, when modern military is multi faceted and data driven which plays to average female strengths.
1.1.4.2. Con: While women's muscles tend to have less strength, thanks to estrogen, they are [more resistant](https://www.livestrong.com/article/355987-female-male-muscles/) to fatigue and thus can provide better endurance.
1.1.5. Pro: Females are the only sex that can birth children. Therefore males and females are inherently unequal, from a biological standpoint. This means their value in society is different than that of males. Any consideration of conscription for males or females must take this into account, considering how important reproduction is to the survival of a population.
1.1.6. Pro: Being in the military is not a 9 to 5 job and conscription is generally applied to young people, women have a limited time frame to have children in their lives, when they are young.
1.2. Con: Women already have to shoulder other burdens, for example that of giving birth.
1.2.1. Con: If women are equal to men, they must be able to achieve the same outcomes as men regardless of bodily function. To accept that women are less able or less justified in enduring the same conditions as men is to suggest that they are not equal to men.
1.2.1.1. Con: Females are not equal in the same way as males because females are the only sex that can birth children. It is important to precisely define what "equal" means in the original statement because there are differences between what "equal" means in a legal and biological sense. Ignoring this would be to ignore the differences between men and women and the merits of equal application of military conscription.
1.2.2. Con: There is no way to compare the experiences or responsibilities of military conscription/ service and gestation.
1.2.3. Con: Motherhood is optional. Conscription is, by definition, compulsory.
1.2.3.1. Pro: Not all women decide to have children.
1.2.3.2. Pro: Not all women are physically capable of bearing children.
1.2.4. Pro: When women have responsibilities such as repopulating the planet, they should not also be required to join the military and face potential death.
1.2.4.1. Pro: A society can recover from the loss of men more easily than from the loss of women, because women have a more limited reproductive capacity.
1.2.5. Pro: -> See 1.1.5.
1.3. Pro: More women in the military will improve the culture in the armed forces and improve its workings.
1.3.1. Pro: A primary cause of neglecting sexual assault in the military is the lack of women in chains of command. Adding more women to the military would resolve this.
1.4. Pro: Men and women should carry equal responsibility for protecting their country.
1.4.1. Pro: Women currently serve equally, their entry methods should be equal.
1.4.2. Pro: Women and men are supposedly equal under the law, they should have the same rights, responsibilities, and pay as men.
1.4.3. Pro: It is sexist to argue otherwise.
1.4.4. Pro: When conscription is applied unevenly, people who are conscripted might feel resentment against the gender that is disproportionately exempt and develop prejudice against them.
1.5. Pro: Having more women serving in the military will change the image of women in society for the better.
1.5.1. Pro: Including women in the military will promote the idea that women can participate equally in physical activities. This will make it easier for women who participate in contact sports.
1.5.2. Pro: Including women in the military will promote gender equality.
1.5.2.1. Pro: It shows that women and men are equally capable to fight for their country.
1.6. Pro: More women serving in the military will change the image of the military in society for the better.
1.7. Con: More women in the armed forces will create new problems and conflict due to gender issues.
1.7.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.4.1.