Discussion Title: Modern Medicine: Blessing or Curse for Human Evolution?

1. Modern medicine is bad for human evolution.
1.1. Con: Modern medicine is no different than any other technology that allows us to thrive in circumstances that we otherwise couldn't. There are humans in space and under the ocean and on Antarctica due to technology we possess.
1.1.1. Pro: Indeed, it is technology that will ensure our success as a species. New technologies continue generations of tool-based innovation that has underpinned the evolution of our species.
1.1.2. Con: No other technology allows defective genes to be transferred to next generations, thus no other technology has a macroscopical impact to the species' evolution.
1.1.2.1. Con: Even without medicine, some defective genes would be transferred to the next generation. For example, the genes that cause cancer and heart disease are oftentimes only noticed at high age and after reproduction.
1.1.2.2. Con: Skill in weaponery \(build or usage\) has nothing to do with medicine. Yet it allowed genes considered defective before \(body muscle weakness\) to become irrelevant and then still transferred to next generation. It did have macrocospical impact on evolution.
1.2. Con: Just because someone gets sick or injured does not mean they are a weak member of the species.
1.2.1. Con: While someone may not be extremely weak, if they get injured or sick then perhaps they possess traits that are not ideal for their given environment. If someone falls off a ladder because they lack caution or a sense of balance, that trait may be good to remove from the gene pool.
1.2.1.1. Con: This has little to do with medicine. We need to split between injuries and death that are curable by medicine from the ones that cannot if we are to debate about medicine’s influence over evolution.
1.2.2. Pro: Many people that would have died without modern medicine go on to contribute a lot to society.
1.2.2.1. Con: Contributing to society does not mean contributing to the specie evolution. It only contributes to the environmental factors surrounding the evolution.
1.3. Con: Medical advances allow the species to explore other trade-offs that ultimately benefit the species as a whole.
1.3.1. Con: Physical resistance to injury and disease will always be valuable.
1.3.1.1. Con: It is only valuable if we consider loss or regression of medicine on the scale of the entire specie.
1.3.2. Pro: Assuming that humans start traveling to other planets, the ability to adapt in completely novel ways will be necessary. Medicine, along with other technologies, will simply be there to help us adapt to new environments.
1.4. Pro: Medicine reduces risks of injury and death, allowing people who lack common sense to survive.
1.4.1. Pro: Stupidity, in the long term, is the most destructive trait that medicine allows to survive.
1.4.1.1. Con: There is no definitive set of traits that either scientists or laymen use to ascribe stupidity to an individual, let alone a whole species. Stupidity is a matter of perspective, or more fundamentally perception.
1.4.1.1.1. Con: Intelligence seems to be an actual mesurable trait by something commonly called the [G-Factor](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/G_factor_\(psychometrics\)), driving capacities to recognize parterns, ajust to changes and opportunities regardless of the context. Lacking these traits is ok in a moderne society, but an appocalyptic event would simply kill most of these people.
1.4.1.2. Con: Medecine also allow people with great intelligence to survive and reproduce.
1.4.1.3. Con: Medicine does not cure or prevent stupidity. It cures people with injuries, disease or body weakness. The percentage of events where a person gets injured because of a stupid decision is rather low compared to disease and epidemics, accidents, war, and any other event that is no fault of their own. Medicine has little impact over survival/non survival of the "stupid" people when looking at greater numbers.
1.4.2. Con: Common sense is in itself ultimately a subjective notion. It is not passed from one generation to the next, only the qualities attributed to the idea of common sense.
1.5. Pro: Medical technology allows very weak members of the species to survive and reproduce.
1.5.1. Con: The "weak" have other qualities to offer that are beneficial to the species.
1.5.1.1. Con: This is based on a restricted definition of weakness. We should rather define "weakness" as a genetical disadvantage which should not permit survival until time of reproduction.
1.5.2. Pro: Natural selection by means of removing members from the gene pool has been the primary method of evolution since the beginning of life. Survival of the fittest, death of the weakest.
1.5.2.1. Con: Strength/Weakness is only one dualism by which measure failure or success of an individual or a species. The Innovation/Stagnation dualism governs humanity's evolution as a tool based species. In the face of a new challenge to survival where physical prowess could not surmount the obstacle encountered, groups of humans have innovated new technologies or tools. Had this not been the case, stagnation would surely have resulted in demise.
1.5.2.2. Con: However, we are a tool based species,in that when confronted by a challenge we innovate a tool to overcome that challenge. The spear, the wheel, the plough or the fortress are simply the first steps in our our innovation of the tools such as the abattoir, the airplane, the combine harvester and the skyscraper. Thus, Innovate/Stagnate forms another dualism essential to the species continued survival. One of the many more dualisms beyond Strength/Weakness.
1.5.2.2.1. Pro: Medicine cures more people and allow us as a specie to have more potential people to invent and also use these tools.
1.5.3. Con: Technology allows humans to conquer and even eradicate problems that have held us back, such as malaria. There are many extrinsic causes of disease and death that have little to do with someone's inherent fitness and more to do with random chance. Removing those problems actually improves the effectiveness of evolution.
1.6. Con: Evolutionary time scales for humanity span tens of thousands of years. Any measure of the impact of modern healthcare on humanity is merely another point event in that process.  We have to wait a few epochs before we can really know how the evolution is being impacted.
1.6.1. Pro: Today's medicine makes more people survive, and thus enlarges the genetic pool. It is preferable to have larger samples as a specie so more adaptability can emerge.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Genetic mutation being random, some favorable genetical traits for future major changes that are unperceptible now will come handy in the future. But these would not be there in the future if it were not for today's modern medicine.
1.7. Con: We shouldn't be thinking about human evolution in terms of natural selection any more. With widespread genetic engineering becoming a possibility, we no longer have to rely on chance to improve the human gene pool through death - we can improve the gene pool ourselves, without harming anyone.