Discussion Title: Multiculturalism is good for societies

1. Multiculturalism is good for societies
1.1. Pro: Skilled migrant labour helps economic growth.
1.1.1. Con: It helps the economic development of developed countries at behest of the underdeveloped countries which lose work force for their own much needed development. The underdeveloped countries need those skilled workers the most.
1.1.2. Con: This is because of the economic activity of migrants, not their culture. Growth would be equally benefited by migrants assimilating completely into the dominant culture.
1.1.3. Con: Unskilled immigrant labor is a net drain in the economy and the culture.
1.2. Con: Not all cultures will want to contribute and join in the national identity. This is likely to be more detrimental than good.
1.2.1. Con: If somebody wants it or not doesn't determine if it's good.
1.3. Pro: The diversity of a society can only be a good thing as it out builds relationships and knowledge.
1.3.1. Pro: Diversifying ideas and thought processes helps it's move forward from a collective experiences.
1.4. Pro: Multiculturalism is innevitable in a globalized world.
1.4.1. Pro: Most countries are multicultural.
1.4.1.1. Con: Most countries are not multicultural at Westerners’ levels.
1.4.2. Con: Inevitability does not confer worth or benefit.
1.5. Pro: Living in a multicultural society encourages respect for humanity.
1.5.1. Con: It is beneficial for a society if a big majority of the population lives by the same rules an virtues.
1.5.2. Con: The current version of multiculturalism assumes that all world views and cultural practices deserve the same degree of respect. This is counterproductive to social progress. People deserve respect, ideas have to earn it on merit.
1.6. Pro: Monocultural nations struggle to grow. Multicultural societies will thus help the nation to expand.
1.7. Con: Intolerance and violence can increase when cultural differences are not reconcilable.
1.7.1. Pro: Intolerance is much more likely to develop in isolation than in a multicultural context.
1.7.2. Con: Differences can be mostly reconcilable with respect and boundaries.
1.7.2.1. Con: Creation of new boundaries is a form of oppression to the previous monoculture.
1.7.3. Con: The root of intolerance and violence is fear and lack of acceptance. Multicultural values can help combat that and thus end intolerance.
1.7.3.1. Con: Forcing compliance to multiculturalism is also violence and intolerant.
1.7.4. Con: Intolerance and violence will never resolve if it cannot be confronted.
1.8. Pro: Ethnic minorities are safer in societies where cultural pluralism is accepted.
1.8.1. Con: If societal norms \(culture\) includes acceptance of minorities then ethnic minorities would not be more safe due to cultural pluralism. Additional cultures could increase intolerance due to misunderstanding and/or bigotry.
1.8.2. Con: Ethnic minorities wouldn’t exist to begin with if you had a monoculture. For a monoculture it is undesirable to add minority groups.
1.9. Con: Multiculturalism, when taken too far as a political philosophy harms integration within a nation.
1.9.1. Con: The more the country takes multiculturalism as the nation policy, [the more the citizens accept each other](http://press-files.anu.edu.au/downloads/press/p113381/html/ch04.xhtml?referer=310&page=8)
1.10. Con: Multiculturalism lends itself to taking all aspects of another culture, even parts which do not closely align with the values of western nations such as misogyny, homophobia, and other philosophy at the antithesis of modern western values.
1.11. Con: Multiculturalism will harm or prevent the original feature of a culture. Each culture is special and should be developed deeper without intervention of others.
1.12. Con: Social trust is improved in monocultural societies.
1.12.1. Con: When the cultural gap between two cultures is too big, multicultarism can result in several parallel societies living as bubbles in one country, causing further negative division amongst the totality of the countries citizens.
1.12.2. Pro: Within a monoculture, citizens are likely to act within similar value systems which can promote a sense of comfort.
1.13. Pro: Multiculturalism prevents ethnocentrism \(the evaluation of other cultures according to preconceptions originating in the standards and customs of one's own culture\).
1.13.1. Con: Actually it creates it, as the local culture is subdued and the foreign one grows comparatively.
1.13.2. Pro: In countries that adopt multiculturalism e.g. Canada\), multiculturalism [became part of the national identity and source of pride.](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/diverse-and-competitive/201507/multiculturalism-around-the-world)
1.14. Pro: When different cultures co-exist, they can complement each other and foster innovation.
1.14.1. Pro: Different cultures have different perspectives and ideas about things. If they share and discuss ideas, it would probably lead to people coming up with new observations, ideas and innovate new technologies.
1.14.1.1. Con: This applies only if the cultures were willing to settle down despite their differences and both had the same goals, i.e. the pursuit of rationalism and empericism, which are not universally accepted principles.
1.14.1.1.1. Pro: Muslims would likely be more willing, generally speaking, to discuss ideas with Westerners according to these principles in their [golden age](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Islamic_Golden_Age) \(8th-14th century\) than today. Cultural tendencies shift and fluctuate.
1.14.1.2. Con: Ideas can be discussed without the need of creating multicultural societies.
1.14.2. Pro: Different cultures have different practices for a variety of social interactions and situations. By allowing for exchange the best practices can be utilized by all.
1.15. Con: A society can feel threatened by the imposed changes naturally brought in by foreigners.
1.15.1. Pro: Immigrants can bring in their own problems which become the responsibility of the state they migrated to rather than the one they emigrated from.
1.15.1.1. Pro: A stunning example is the problem of Pakistani inbreeding, which makes them [responsible](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/mother-tongue/4014743/Warning-over-births-to-first-cousin-marriages.html) causing 30% of all birth defects in the UK despite having 3.4% of the births. It costs the NHS hundreds of millions \(appr. 6\) of their 2 billion pound budget \(as of 2004\) to treat the conditions this problem causes.
1.15.2. Con: Local populations can be displaced and eventually become minoritary in their homeland.