Discussion Title: NFL Player Protests: Should NFL Players Stand or Kneel for the National Anthem?

1. NFL players should be forced to stand during the National Anthem.
1.1. Pro: Sports and other entertainment are some of the few activities that unite people. If the players stand, the sport is again uniting people.
1.1.1. Con: Injustice causes disunity.  The players are kneeling to bring attention to injustice.  Telling people to ignore injustice so some feel better is a loathsome sentiment.
1.1.2. Pro: Patriotism binds the nation together.
1.1.2.1. Con: I find the kneeling to be patriotic. It is a reverent way to show sorrow that our society is not living up to the ideals of the flag and the ideals that people died for.
1.1.2.2. Pro: The national anthem is a tool employed by most if not all governments to foster national unity. As such, it should be exempt from all forms of protest and allowed to perform it's function.
1.1.2.3. Pro: Patriotism makes the population more willing to sacrifice for the nation as a whole, be it by paying taxes or going to war. This helps to overcome [collective action problems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collective_action_problem).
1.1.2.3.1. Con: If the sacrifice is for an ignoble cause, however, then patriotism can be incredibly dangerous.
1.1.2.3.2. Con: The actions of the nation as a whole are often unethical.
1.1.2.3.2.1. Con: The US acts ethically internationally.
1.1.2.3.2.1.1. Pro: The US allows many countries to freeride on security, in particular the EU, and has not taken serious action to stop this.
1.1.2.3.2.1.2. Pro: The US is the only power that was willing to engage militarily abroad to stop genocides from happening.
1.1.2.3.2.1.3. Pro: The US has build an institutional international order that allows other countries to grow.
1.1.2.3.2.1.4. Con: Only under a very [odd](https://chomsky.info/20101026/) [inconsistent](https://www.globalresearch.ca/the-ever-growing-list-of-admitted-false-flag-attacks/5578473) ethical code.
1.1.2.3.2.1.5. Con: There are numerous examples throughout recent history of the US acting unethically, usually in an effort to further its self-interest.
1.1.2.3.2.1.5.1. Pro: The US [supports](https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/02/a-reminder-mubarak-isn-t-the-only-u-s-backed-dictator/342401/) several dictatorial regimes.
1.1.2.3.2.1.5.2. Pro: Under Realpolitik, the US supported and expedited the [Indonesian invasion of East Timor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indonesian_invasion_of_East_Timor#US_involvement) \(which cost upwards of 100,000 lives\) as well as the [Bangladesh genocide](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1971_Bangladesh_genocide) \(which cost upwards of 300,000 lives\) because these were considered to be in America's best national interest.
1.1.2.3.2.1.5.3. Pro: From 1965-1973 the [bombing campaign](https://www.jacobinmag.com/2015/04/khmer-rouge-cambodian-genocide-united-states/) that the US led against Cambodia in an effort to eliminate North Vietnamese strongholds cost an untold number of civilian lives and laid the groundwork for the Khmer Rouge to secure power, leading to the Cambodian genocide of 1975-79 and the infamous "killing fields".
1.1.2.3.2.1.5.4. Pro: Fearing the spread of communism in South America in the 1970s, the US initiated a [bloody coup](https://www.gilderlehrman.org/history-by-era/seventies/essays/henry-kissinger-and-american-foreign-policy) against Salvador Allende, the democratically elected socialist leader of Chile. Under American support, the government that replaced him started a program of organized terror to imprison and murder all opposition -- even those who were non-communist.
1.1.2.3.2.1.5.5. Pro: Realizing that the Vietnam War was a lost cause, Nixon and Kissinger [applied Realpolitik](https://www.gilderlehrman.org/history-by-era/seventies/essays/henry-kissinger-and-american-foreign-policy) in order to secure an exit that would preserve the credibility of American power. This meant negotiating with Vietnamese communists under the threat of violent retaliation should they not compromise. Ultimately, this policy continued the conflict until 1973; and although the US managed to preserve its image, it came at the cost of thousands of lives.
1.1.2.3.2.1.5.6. Pro: When the US invaded Iraq in the early 2000s, it was under the [false pretense](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2004/jul/28/iraq.usa) of trying to destroy WMDs but was actually about fears over oil and the preservation of the US dollar. This war cost hundreds of thousands of lives and created a [power vacuum](https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2016/jul/06/intelligence-files-support-claims-iraq-invasion-helped-spawn-isis) that led to the rise of ISIS and other terrorist groups.
1.1.2.3.2.2. Pro: The US is [force-feeding Guantanamo detainees](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/jun/25/force-feeding-guantanamo-detainees-unethical).
1.1.2.4. Pro: Nationalism/Patriotism allows for the self-confidence to accept foreign cultures and people. South Koreans, for example, have a very strong sense of [national pride](http://nwww.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20120425001114) but at the same time are open and eager to [incorporate](https://thediplomat.com/2014/07/korea-redefines-multiculturalism/) foreign people and cultures.
1.1.2.4.1. Con: South Koreans are eager to accept foreigners because of long-term collaboration with the US, as opposed to patriotism.
1.1.2.4.1.1. Con: Many foreigners South Korea accepts are not from the US. In fact, immigration statistics show that the US represent less than [10%](https://esa.un.org/miggmgprofiles/indicators/files/Korea.pdf).
1.1.2.4.1.2. Con: Intercultural exchanges were not started by the US in Korea but by Japan's colonization.
1.1.2.4.2. Con: South Koreans are eager to accept foreigners because of economic wisdom, as opposed to patriotism.
1.1.2.4.3. Pro: Logically, being insecure about one's identity will undermine one's confidence that a country can handle problems that arise with it.
1.1.2.5. Con: A world where citizens are increasingly patriotic is a world likely to go to war with nationalist fervor. "Patriotism" is just a better word for "Nationalism". Nationalism is dangerous.
1.1.2.5.1. Con: Nationalism is [a harmful form of patriotism](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/patriotism/#PatNat). While patriotism is a devotion to a particular place and a way of life one thinks best, but has no wish to impose on others, nationalism is accordingly aggressive.
1.1.2.5.1.1. Pro: Participation in a national identity can lead to negative results. [Jingoism](https://www.britannica.com/topic/jingoism), a form of ultra nationalism, can lead to individuals thinking their country is always right and other countries are wrong, which can lead to conflict and war.
1.1.2.5.1.2. Con: This is a sweeping overgeneralization. There are multiple forms of nationalism; and while some might tend more towards aggression or intolerance, others do not.
1.1.2.5.1.2.1. Pro: Although the exclusive nature of [ethnic nationalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethnic_nationalism) tends to be more harmful, [civic nationalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civic_nationalism) is far more inclusive since its membership is voluntary and revolves around shared social values rather than shared heritage. This type of nationalism is thus less likely to be harmful or xenophobic as it is compatible with progressive values like freedom, equality, and tolerance.
1.1.2.5.1.2.2. Con: The forms of nationalism that do not tend toward aggression and intolerance, however, are generally the ones that do not see refugees as a threat to their national identity and would see new cultures in their country as enriching rather than eroding their heritage.
1.1.2.5.1.2.3. Pro: [Sports nationalism](http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/nationalism-is-not-necessarily-a-bad-thing/article/2599075), best illustrated by the Olympic games, is a type of nationalism that has positive attributes. Not only does it easily embrace ethnic and racial diversity, but it offers an opportunity for people from nations suffering political or economic divides to unite in celebration of their fellow countrymen's athletic prowess.
1.1.2.5.1.3. Con: Nationalism is not necessarily a bad thing, as the shared sense of norms, mores, and identity that it gives citizens not only strengthens communities but helps to prevent feelings of isolation and anomie.
1.1.2.5.1.4. Pro: The anthem is just another show of nationalism, which enforces imaginary boundaries.
1.1.2.5.1.4.1. Con: Since the boundaries are enforced by law and protected by force of arms, they are real, even though they may not be physical.
1.1.2.5.1.4.2. Con: The sovereignty of a nation necessitates boundaries, whether marked on the ground or only on a map.
1.1.2.5.1.5. Pro: [Nationalism](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/nationalism) extends the notion of patriotism by also including “exalting one nation above all others, placing primary emphasis on its culture and interests,” and nationalism places more emphasis on symbols and icons over the people who live in that nation.
1.1.2.5.1.6. Con: -> See 1.1.2.4.
1.1.2.6. Con: One only has obligation to express national pride if said nation consistently acts and influences in such a way that when critically analyzed on purely ethical grounds, remains worthy of pride and support.To ensure that patriotism is never synonymous with poorly supported, blind national pride, citizens have a duty to publicly express concerns with the ways in which their nation influences the global or national community, lest one wants to argue that a nation deserves unconditional respect.
1.1.2.6.1. Con: -> See 1.1.2.3.2.1.
1.1.2.7. Pro: A healthy sense of nationalism and patriotism is something that binds people together, particularly when cultural differences between subcultures threaten to divide the populace. While it is definitely true that nationalism and patriotism are not the default in our nation today, that very truth is part of the problem in society.
1.1.2.7.1. Pro: The problem today is that many conservative white people \(and particularly police officers\) see urban black people as being more likely to reject their connection with society. Rejecting the national anthem reinforces this negative view of African-Americans, which furthers other negative stereotypes, such as being angry or prone to criminality and other antisocial behavior.
1.1.2.7.1.1. Pro: This result is the opposite of what Black Lives Matter and other groups want to achieve. Therefore, the protesters should use different methods to draw attention to the problem of racism in a way that dispels these negative stereotypes, rather than conforming to them.
1.1.3. Pro: When people protest demonstrations of patriotism, they turn their back on the system that ensures we have these freedoms and create division among all people. There are more constructive ways to protest.
1.1.3.1. Con: Attacking the method of a protest is often just an excuse to try and silence the message.
1.1.3.2. Con: American patriotism is born of political demonstrations - from the Boston Tea Party to anti-Vietnam protests. Failing to protest injustice isn't "turning your back on the system that ensures we have the freedom", but instead, "patriotically exercising your right to political demonstration".
1.1.3.3. Con: Kneeling does not prevent anyone from standing or participating in the Anthem. It is thus peaceful, non-violent, and only disruptive in the sense of people reacting to the protest; not the protest occurring itself.
1.1.3.4. Con: The protest specifically highlights the fact that the system is failing to ensure the freedoms guaranteed to all Americans.
1.1.4. Pro: The end goal of the BLM movement is to reach a state of unity, and acheive a sense of belonging as citizens in equal standing in American society. The ritual of the national anthem is intended specifically to engender that very sense of unity and shared sense of belonging. Standing for the anthem, while finding other means to draw attention to racism and inequality, would further the stated goals of BLM.
1.1.4.1. Con: You could engender a greater and more lasting sense of unity and shared sense of belonging by supporting a person's silent and non-violent protest without hijacking their cause and changing the narrative of their statement. Understanding a perceived injustice, supporting a desire for equality, and fighting for humane treatment of all would go further in bringing us all together.
1.1.4.2. Con: -> See 1.1.3.1.
1.1.4.3. Pro: The end goal of BLM is for black Americans to have the same sense of belonging and equality in society as white Americans, and to not be viewed as different or inferior. By standing they are viewed in the same way as all others.
1.1.4.3.1. Pro: By standing for the anthem, the protestors can express the desire to be unified and viewed as equals. That gesture would build common ground based on shared values that would increase the impact and influence of the message, when the athletes use other avenues to draw attention to racial injustice.
1.1.4.3.2. Pro: The national anthem is a ritual specifically intended to foster that sense of belonging and equality, and by rejecting the anthem, these athletes highlight the differences they have with "middle America", and present optics that invite middle class white people to view the protestors as inferior because they "hate America".
1.1.4.3.2.1. Con: Claiming that a civil rights protest is inappropriate to participate in because the protest is confusing the "white middle class" is prejudice toward the black athletes disguised as helpful advice. Kneeling does not invite anybody to view the protesters as inferior. Protests by black athletes have rarely been supported by a majority of the white, middle class. This claim is suggesting that black athletes only protest when white people agree with how, when and why.
1.1.4.3.3. Con: Change will not happen if everyone "stands". Change will only come if the injustices are revealed and remain revealed until change occurs.
1.1.4.3.3.1. Con: Kneeling is an ineffective and counterproductive means of raising awareness of police brutality because it introduces an additional dichotomy over the meaning and importance of symbols, ritual, and patriotism in our society, which is unrelated to correcting the problem of police violence. This distracting dichotomy actually overshadows the discussion of police violence, and creates additional barriers to the creation of mutual understanding that is essential to solving social problems.
1.1.5. Con: Forcing everyone to stand, while acknowledging there is a social divide in our nation far beyond just one's opinion on the national anthem issue, would only cause more disunity because those that supported kneeling would feel silenced by an already unjust government.
1.1.5.1. Pro: Because of people kneeling, the idea that there is a civil disconnect has been brought to the forefront of political debate. This disunity existed before NFL players were kneeling, but was not acted upon until this movement.
1.1.6. Con: The only thing that binds our nation together are existing within the borders of it in some way. All individuals within the borders of this country are affected by the laws and stances of its policymakers and therefore ought to be privy to inalienable rights and protections from danger - both foreign and domestic.
1.1.7. Con: It is difficult to measure the unity of the nation.
1.1.8. Con: An expression of patriotism loses meaning when it becomes obligatory.
1.1.8.1. Pro: In the end, this is just an issue that our current President has used to stir up his base. Kaepernick consulted a veteran friend of his about how to best protest while still being respectful, and kneeling was what they came up with. It is only because Trump made it an issue that people are so upset.
1.1.8.2. Con: Adherence isn't obligatory at all. There is only peer pressure to engage in a ritual expressing belief in the best values and intentions of our society.
1.1.8.2.1. Con: Players being officially penalized by an authority if they do not behave as expected is beyond only peer pressure.
1.1.8.2.2. Con: Social condemnation for refusing to partake in the show of patriotism means that, for all intents and purposes, that the show of patriotism is obligatory.
1.1.8.2.3. Con: Peer pressure to participate in a ritual of sanctimonious militarism and theatrical patriotism may not reflect the best values and intentions of our society.
1.1.8.3. Pro: Standing for the flag has become rote. For an action to having meaning or propel a set of values that action must be done in a thoughtful and deliberate manner.
1.1.8.3.1. Con: Positive, meaningful actions or values need not only arise after every person cogitates his assent, collectively. \(ex. consider the vacuity and role of pleasantries we exchange, and forms of nonchalance in observation of religious worship with lukewarm attendees\)
1.1.8.4. Pro: A National Anthem is ultimately just a song. Forcing patriotic sentiment onto a person completely disregards their rights to have their own beliefs, especially when they are protesting a specific cause.
1.1.9. Con: Rituals and ceremonies don't create lasting, meaningful bonds. We bond when we talk and come together to solve problems. Kneeling has started us talking by pointing out a problem we need to solve.
1.1.10. Pro: The players are hijacking a game that everyone enjoyed.
1.1.11. Con: People can also unite to fight against systemic injustice. If the goal is uniting people, a better solution would be for NFL watchers to unite with NFL players to protest injustice. This would unite people and reduce injustice. NFL watchers have instead chosen to see protests as dis-unifying, and not to stand with protesters. The disunity is therefore the fault of NFL watchers, not NFL players.
1.1.12. Con: Unity comes from understanding each other. Making a sincere effort to listen to them and understand why they are kneeling brings unity; not forcing them to shut up.
1.1.13. Con: Unity isn't a worthy goal in a democracy. 50.1% of people agreeing on an issue \(such as a referendum\) is all you need for it to become law. That's how democracy works. It's also why most democratic constitutions include protections for political minorities. Division is not only natural and beneficial, but an inherently democratic value. Lopsided votes such as 97%-3% where nearly everyone agrees on something \(unity\), are often indicative of rigged elections and totalitarianism.
1.1.14. Con: Uncritical unity is dangerous. By interrupting the nation's uncritical consumption of sports/entertainment, the players are highlighting injustice in a very public and impactful manner.
1.1.15. Con: Standing during the national anthem doesn't affect the game itself in any way. If the sport itself is the activity that unifies people then only actions that impact the sport will impact its unifying effect.
1.1.15.1. Con: Regardless of whether or not the game play itself is altered, it is self-evident that the players' choice to stand or kneel has influenced the sport's unifying effect on the masses. Otherwise, this very debate would not exist.
1.1.15.2. Con: By standing, NFL players enhance the unity of the nation.
1.2. Pro: NFL players are role models to younger athletes and should respect national ceremonies.
1.2.1. Con: They are role models to younger athletes and should model non-violent protest of unequal conditions in our country when their conscience demands it.  Modeling Free Speech and standing up for equality is as American as it gets. They protest for equality in treatment by police, and equality leads to unity and strengthens our country.
1.2.2. Con: Being a role model is a matter of personal, moral conviction.
1.2.3. Con: Is Muhammad Ali not considered to be a role model? In the 60s he was vilified for refusing to be drafted into the military to fight in Vietnam. Over time American society realized it was wrong and opinions changed. The same thing is likely to happen with Kaepernick. At some point America will wake up to the fact that there is a prevalent racial bias that leads to people of color being recklessly killed by police officers without repercussions. Kaepernick will be a role model in time.
1.2.4. Con: If the players are role models, and if they have an obligation to lead their young fans by word and deed, then they must communicate their beliefs and moral compass in the context of their celebrity.  There is no credible threat of consequent violence or institutional damage.  And every player takes a position on the debate whenever he appears during a televised rendition of the anthem.  If he believes in the message, he has a moral obligation to his young fans to kneel.
1.2.5. Con: Respecting ceremony is not an ethical argument for encroaching upon a peaceful and just protest
1.3. Pro: Standing acknowledges the sacrifices of American servicemen and women.
1.3.1. Con: -> See 1.1.8.
1.3.2. Con: The National Anthem, although the context is derivative of Francis Scott Key's initial poem, holds no real relation to the United States military. It doesn't really represent their sacrifices or how in fact millions of men and women dying in lands thousands of miles away correlates to preserving free speech.
1.3.3. Con: Honoring our servicemen and women is not necessarily a good thing. It would first have to be established that the military is worth honoring.
1.3.3.1. Pro: Most United States military actions overseas serve only the ruling class, powerful political interests, and the military-industrial complex. The concept of "democratization" and "bringing freedom" typically cover up less popular reasons we engage: imperialism and maintaining geo-political control. We routinely violate the [Geneva Conventions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geneva_Conventions), which establish standards of international law, to further these agendas. Servicemen and women are proponents of this system.
1.3.4. Pro: Kneeling disrespects the soldiers and veterans.
1.3.4.1. Con: Kneeling was taken from the act of kneeling at a fallen soldier's grave by Kaepernick, [after talking to Nate Boyer](https://www.cbssports.com/nfl/news/heres-how-nate-boyer-got-colin-kaepernick-to-go-from-sitting-to-kneeling/), a former Green Beret.  This was done as opposed to sitting, in order to get the message out while still being respectful.
1.3.4.1.1. Pro: Specifically, Boyer offered that kneeling would be seen as more respectful because it's something that soldiers do at military grave sites to show respect.
1.3.4.2. Con: It's not the fault of the NFL players if some of their audience misinterprets the meaning of their protest, and this is no reason for them to stop the protest entirely.
1.3.4.2.1. Con: No, but they should change the form of protest to one that does not seem disrespectful. The [original purpose](https://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/article/2017/sep/25/short-history-national-anthem-and-sports/) of playing the national anthem at sporting events nationwide was a tribute to the troops during WW2, and after 9/11, players would stand for similar reasons. To kneel now with the understanding of what the anthem means can be seen as disrespect to the troops. The leap from the original intention to how it's being viewed is not far enough to be trivialized as a mere misinterpretation.
1.3.4.2.1.1. Con: When Mr. Kaepernick first protested, he sat on the bench until he met with a group of veterans who suggested he kneel to [show respect but still protest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._national_anthem_protests_\(2016%E2%80%93present\)#2016_preseason).
1.3.4.2.1.1.1. Con: When explaining his protest, Kaepernick stated, ["I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color"](http://www.nfl.com/news/story/0ap3000000691077/article/colin-kaepernick-explains-why-he-sat-during-national-anthem). This indicates he explicitly did not want to show respect for America.
1.3.4.2.1.1.1.1. Con: "Pride" and "Respect" are different things.  He can show respect by working to change the system he feels does not work, rather than express blind, bland patriotism.  He is not required to feel proud of what the flag stands for.
1.3.4.2.1.1.1.2. Con: In stating the aspect of America that he has no pride in he defined his protest. Generalization of his actions as a lack of pride in America generally is therefore incorrect or disingenuous.
1.3.4.2.1.1.2. Pro: One story even suggests that the original idea was given to him by a former Special Forces operator. Associating the flag with the military is definitely not a valid excuse for associating the anthem protests with being against the military.
1.3.4.2.1.2. Con: Any form of protest can be seen as disrespectful if people try hard enough. Each person must decide how they view the kneeling protest -- they can view the kneeling as an American symbol of protesting injustice, or view it as disrespecting the troops. Fundamentally, the protest isn't disrespectful or respectful, except that a viewer makes it so.
1.3.4.3. Con: I mean no disrespect to our armed forces, but it seems the National Anthem has been hijacked by the military and local law enforcement agencies. Yes, it includes them but it is also applicable to those like Rosa Parks, MLK, Frederick Douglass and countless others who fought for freedoms and who in their own way made this country a better place. So yes, it is perfectly appropriate for NFL players to protest.
1.3.4.4. Con: Not all [soldiers and veterans](https://theundefeated.com/features/an-open-letter-from-american-military-veterans-in-support-of-colin-kaepernick/) are of the opinion that kneeling during the anthem is wrong.
1.3.4.5. Con: Soldiers and veterans are not a protected class of citizens when it concerns speech.
1.3.4.6. Con: There is no link between why the players are kneeling and soldiers and veterans. They have clearly stated they are protesting racism and police brutality.
1.3.4.7. Con: Soldiers do not fight for the flag or the anthem, they fight for the freedom those represent.  Non-violent protest is an expression of that freedom, and therefore honors the soldiers who fought and died to guarantee it.
1.3.5. Pro: Kneeling disrespects the flag that many have died for.
1.3.5.1. Pro: The flag holds a great emotional and sincere value to millions of Americans, many of whom tie the sacrifices of veterans on behalf of their nation as woven into the symbol of the flag. 
Protesting by disturbing an accepted societal ritual of standing for the national anthem should not be taken lightly for that reason. 
Protests that use this moment to make their point, run the risk of having their message lost in what appears to be disrespect for the nation as a whole.
1.3.5.1.1. Con: -> See 1.3.4.1.
1.3.5.1.2. Con: The message against police brutality is being deliberately redirected to veterans in an attempt to silence a legitimate protest.  That redirection itself is disrespectful to veterans who fight for justice and not for the flag.
1.3.5.1.3. Con: For a protest to be effective, it must be conspicuous.
1.3.5.2. Con: Those who died "for the flag" died for the freedom and safety of its people. Ruling a protest that highlights uneven distribution of freedom and safety illegitimate on technical grounds \(flag code\) is more disrespectful than the protest itself.
1.3.5.3. Con: Just because people die for something does not make it worthy of respect. Many ISIS fighters have made great personal sacrifices for their cause, it does not mean they are necessarily worth of respect.
1.3.5.3.1. Pro: One must protest when it is apparent that the global and internal actions of any nation are such that its active influence appears counter-productive to global efforts of peace and stability. Arguably, the U.S. has, and continues to influence the international community negatively, and under unethical and inconsistent maxims. Protesting its symbol, therefore, is a refusal to blindly believe that the U.S. continues to be in the business of developing peace, freedom and prosperity for all.
1.3.5.4. Con: The flag is only a symbol of the ideals this country was founded on. Those ideals are found in the Declaration of Independence, the US Constitution, and Bill of Rights. If you're exercising a right to free speech, this honors the flag.
1.3.5.4.1. Con: Freedom of speech also protects the NFL's right to regulate players' conduct while representing the NFL. Opponents can argue that their rules are immoral or selective, but it would be difficult to challenge their legality.
1.3.5.4.1.1. Con: These players give of their bodies willingly for what is essentially territorial pride and entertainment. In a sport that is catching more and more flak with the concussion issue, they should save face and allow those who choose to protest kneel.
1.3.5.4.1.1.1. Pro: -> See discussion #10143: American Football Should Be Banned.
1.3.5.4.1.1.2. Con: The players are paid quite well to sacrifice their bodies and health; they are not doing it for altruistic reasons. Individuals trade their time and health everyday for money, so it goes without saying that it does not give them a right to cause a PR nightmare for their employer.
1.3.5.4.1.2. Con: Freedom of speech is granted to the individual.  Employers, however, have [severely interfered](https://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/21/your-money/speaking-about-politics-can-cost-you-your-job.html) with our freedom of speech as a condition of continued employment.  This has silenced most of us, who have employers.  The NFL is just one example of how this works.  These players can lose their jobs when exercising this right.  Instead of jailing or killing people as governments used to do, the government \(Trump\) just encourages the NFL to fire them.  This needs to be challenged in a court of law.
1.3.5.4.1.2.1. Con: The US Constitution grants places limits on what the government can and cannot do, such as limit speech. The NFL is a private institution, and has the ability to set its own rules and standards.
1.3.5.4.1.3. Con: "Freedom of speech" is about more than rights. It's about the goal - open debate and not shutting down criticism. If owners fire players who criticize the US, the spirit of freedom of speech isn't honored.
1.3.5.5. Con: The argument is it is disrespectful to the flag, but there are so many instances of people breaking the [flag code](http://www.usflag.org/uscode36.html) at every game that no one ever talks about. The draping of the field with the flag pregame is against flag code, thus disrespectful. Anyone wearing attire other than military, PD, or FD, that has a flag on it is against flag code.
1.3.5.5.1. Con: It seems that we are being distracted by the act of taking a knee when we should actually be discussing the reason that the players are taking a knee.
1.3.5.6. Con: Kneeling has a long history of meaning worship and honor \([thankgodforjesus.org](http://www.thankgodforjesus.org/spiritual-meaning-of-bowing-kneeling-down/)\), \([Kneeling for queen](http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/wkms/files/styles/card_280/public/Columbus-before-Queen-Isabella.jpg)\), and \([en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kneeling)\). The claim that kneeling is disrespectful is not supported by facts.
1.3.5.7. Con: The U.S. [code](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/36/301) for the Star Spangle Banner states: "all other persons present should face the flag and stand at attention with their right hand over the heart, and men not in uniform, if applicable, should remove their headdress with their right hand and hold it at the left shoulder, the hand being over the heart." Emphasis on the word 'should'. No where does it state persons must, therefore the NFL can't force players to stand.
1.3.5.8. Con: Other than this specific example, there are no historical examples of kneeling as a form of disrespect. Kneeling as a form of respect shows up when meeting queens, proposing, at church, and is fundamentally not disrespectful.
1.3.5.9. Con: -> See 1.3.4.2.
1.3.5.10. Con: Police brutality undermines the respect people have for that flag, as police are supposed to be upholders of the peace, not dissidents of it. It is more patriotic to kneel in protest of this injustice than it is to condemn those doing the kneeling.
1.3.5.11. Con: They died to protect freedoms, not the flag. Pretending NFL players don't have this right disrespects the people who died.
1.3.5.12. Con: People die for the ideals of America, not a piece of cloth. The ideals include freedom of speech.
1.3.5.12.1. Con: -> See 1.3.5.4.1.
1.3.5.12.2. Pro: Freedom of speech protects the right of fans and advertisers to boycott the NFL if they feel regulations restricting protests are unjust, even if they are legal.
1.3.5.12.3. Pro: If the league chooses to enforce rules regulating player conduct, they'll have to explain their [selective enforcement of rules related to domestic violence](http://profootballtalk.nbcsports.com/2017/08/11/nfl-frequently-flouts-its-own-six-game-suspension-domestic-violence-policy/).
1.3.5.12.4. Pro: Freedom of speech guarantees players' right to protest.
1.3.5.12.4.1. Pro: This act is a pure form of respect for America. Kaepernick and his supporters are exercising their right of free speech and their intent to represent and support freedom from oppression. These are founding principals of the country, surely the exercise of them must be a positive act.
1.3.5.13. Con: Saying these protests are anti soldier is a false flag to avoid discussions of racial inequality. Outrage about disrespecting the troops has many more productive focuses \(the VA, PTSD suicides, etc\). The NFL and its players have a great relationship with the armed services, [millions of dollars](https://www.mccain.senate.gov/public/_cache/files/12de6dcb-d8d8-4a58-8795-562297f948c1/tackling-paid-patriotism-oversight-report.pdf) and man hours go both ways in advertising and charity work.
1.3.6. Con: Neither the national anthem nor football games have anything to do with American servicemen or women. Blacks have been given the short end of the stick in this country. It is unpatriotic to question their patriotism. If you really want to be a patriot, join the struggle for racial equality.
1.3.7. Con: African-American soldiers coming home from WWII often experienced less freedom at home than they did abroad, inspiring many to agitate for the civil rights movement. Kneeling honors the sacrifices of these American servicemen and women.
1.3.8. Con: Standing is a completely arbitrary action, and is devoid of any meaning that could be construed as negative or positive.
1.3.9. Con: Servicemen and women sacrificed for Americans' rights to protest, not so that our differences would be silenced and stifled.
1.3.10. Pro: If they want to protest, they should not play at all. Why only at the most respected time of the game to honor the fallen should they be on their knees? They are, after all, still getting paid, so they might as well do what's right and not just make a statement to draw the wrong attention.
1.3.10.1. Con: No law is being broken, only some people's opinion of decorum. Other people likely hold the exact opposite opinion. Thus, regardless of whether someone protests or not, he is guaranteed to behave in a way that will conflict with someone's views. If offending no-one is a prerequisite to playing football, then nobody can play.
1.3.10.2. Con: Players were never expected to be on the field [until 2009](http://edition.cnn.com/2017/09/25/us/nfl-national-anthem-trump-kaepernick-history-trnd/index.html) when the military asked owners to have their players take part in order to boost recruitment numbers.
1.3.10.2.1. Pro: Neither the NFL nor the government factored in that someone was paying attention to the hypocrisy and was willing to sacrifice his career to highlight it and had the courage to utilize a venue with a massive national audience.
1.3.10.2.2. Con: This made organized sports political, therefore this is an appropriate place to demonstrate.
1.3.10.3. Con: -> See 1.3.9.
1.3.11. Con: There are many ways we honor our servicemen and women; it is heavily ingrained in our culture. One aberration isn't a problem.
1.3.11.1. Con: Communication is a two way protocol and the message given by disrespecting known patriotic displays is disrespect to the country, its defenders and citizens alike. Even if that is not the intention.
1.3.11.1.1. Con: Communication is a two-way protocol, and the players have taken [reasonable efforts to clarify their intent is not to disrespect,](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/25/opinion/colin-kaepernick-football-protests.html) and have chosen forms which are intentionally not disrespectful. Each person who watches has the power to determine if they hear a peaceful protest during the anthem as "disrespecting the country, its defenders, and its citizens". The players cannot force the watchers to take offense or not - that right is the watchers only.
1.3.11.1.2. Con: -> See 1.3.4.2.
1.3.11.1.3. Con: Free speech dictates that it is okay to disrespect America.
1.3.11.1.3.1. Con: -> See 1.3.5.4.1.
1.3.11.1.3.2. Pro: America is great because we have the right to kneel or burn the flag if that's how we want to communicate. If they do not have the right to kneel, America is not free.
1.3.11.1.3.2.1. Pro: Standing for the national anthem, in and of itself, is not harmful. It is mandating it and lambasting opponents that is.
1.3.11.1.3.2.2. Con: The guarantee of freedom of speech  only protects one from actions of the government, not from an employer.  An employer has the right to regulate how its employees conduct themselves.
1.3.11.1.3.2.2.1. Con: Religious freedom in the United States includes ["reasonable accomodations" for religious observances.](https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/types/religion.cfm) This is limited, when "doing so would cause more than a minimal burden on the operations of the employer's business.". A business that does not allow religious observers to opt-out of standing for a pledge would have to show that all reasonable accommodations \(such as allowing players to stay in the locker room\) had been ruled out, or face lawsuits for religious discrimination.
1.3.12. Con: Kneeling acknowledges the sacrifices of American service personnel. Demanding that someone stand when they want to kneel is disrespectful to those personnel.
1.3.12.1. Con: The stimulus is whether anyone should stand or kneel, not whether someone should demand others to stand or kneel.
1.3.12.2. Con: Choosing to kneel makes a personal statement that is, by definition, distinct from original unifying purpose of the anthem.  As players have stated, it is intended to protest police brutality, not acknowledge the sacrifices of American service personnel.
1.3.13. Con: There is no reason that players should be obliged to acknowledge these individuals. They are worth acknowledging, to be sure, but they fought so Americans could be free, including from their memory.
1.3.14. Con: -> See 1.3.4.2.1.1.
1.4. Pro: Standing for the National Anthem is part of the job.
1.4.1. Pro: NFL players are protected against government, not private, censorship. The National Football League's rules allows franchises \(teams\), which are considered private enterprises, to dictate terms of behavior for their employees \(players.\)
1.4.1.1. Con: The question is "Should" they, not "Are they technically allowed to". It is up to us to decide whether or not they should in this forum, not what rights the NFL has to stop them. We as viewers have a right to not watch if we disagree with the politics.
1.4.2. Con: It cannot be part of anyone's job to support or express opinions which are not his own.
1.4.2.1. Con: [Kim Davis](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kim_Davis) was dismissed and jailed for failing to perform her duties as a marriage clerk due to her personal opinions of marriage differing from the institution she worked for.
1.4.2.2. Pro: We would find it unacceptable if people in other jobs, such as those in the service industry, were forced to partake in the National Anthem before each shift.
1.4.3. Pro: Players are entertainers, paid to perform per standards set forth by their employers and, in this case, the NFL.  If the player doesn't want to perform to the standards, the employer is free to fire them for breach of contract.
1.4.3.1. Con: This, like some other pro arguments, is an argument about the legal right of the NFL to dictate standards and behaviors. It says nothing about whether it should be done.
1.4.3.2. Con: Teams are restricted to terminate players because football players are rare.
1.4.3.2.1. Con: This is a false statement. There are plenty of really good players. Uniquely great ones, by definition, ok. That is not the bulk of the players.
1.4.3.2.2. Pro: Yeah, but the players have a much smaller market for their skill set, and a much shorter career life, so not many players would test the theory that they are too critical to the success of the overall business and that owners would not take action against them.
1.4.3.2.2.1. Con: They are testing it.
1.4.3.2.3. Con: Appeasing fans is necessary to the continuation of the financial goals of the NFL. Their business will suffer without appeasement.
1.4.3.2.3.1. Con: The best way to appease the fans is to appease the players.
1.4.4. Pro: NFL players are employees of the NFL. The league owners are the employers. While "at work", players do not have the free speech or free expression protections that are afforded them when they're operating on their own time. So, the owners can require all players to attend the anthem \(not hide in the locker room\) and stand for the anthem with no violation of their constitutional rights, contrary to so many claims in this debate. The players are "free" to protest \(peacefully\) on their own time.
1.4.4.1. Con: Owners claiming that they "can" require all players to stand for the anthem does not suggest the owners should. This is therefore an argument on what is possible, not whether owners should or should not require players to stand.
1.4.5. Con: It was not part of the job till very recently [NFL Owners Approve New Anthem Policy](http://www.espn.com/nfl/story/_/id/23582533/nfl-owners-approve-new-national-anthem-policy). Though the owners have now made it part of the job, that doesn't mean they have the right to force that upon the players.
1.4.5.1. Con: Update: as a result of the new anthem policy referenced above, there was a [grievance filed](https://www.npr.org/2018/07/10/627717067/nfl-players-union-files-grievance-over-leagues-new-national-anthem-policy) by the NFL Player's Union on July 10, 2018. Then on July 19, 2018, there was a [joint announcement](https://www.theringer.com/nfl/2018/7/19/17593624/miami-dolphins-national-anthem-protests-discipline-suspensions-union-grievance-policy) by the NFL and the Player's Union that "the league will temporarily freeze the enforcement of any new rules related to players protesting during the national anthem." Separately, the Union's grievance process was paused. At this time, standing for the anthem is not required as part of the job.
1.4.5.2. Con: This is not a valid argument. Even if the job description changed yesterday, it's still part of the job. And if it's part of the job, of course the employer has the right to enforce his employee to do it.
1.4.6. Con: Standing or not standing for a flag does not impact the player's performance.
1.4.6.1. Con: Job expectations include both performance and conduct.
1.4.7. Con: NFL players are not paid to stand during the anthem.
1.4.8. Con: The NFL Players Association \(NFLPA\) filed a [grievance](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/nfl-national-anthem-policy-prompts-nfl-players-association-to-file-grievance-today-2018-07-10/) with the league challenging its national anthem policy. The union says that the new policy, which the league imposed without consultation with the NFLPA, is inconsistent with the collective bargaining agreement and infringes on players' rights. They have suspended the new policy for 2019 in order to create a collective agreement. The offense is in the owners disrespect towards the collective bargaining process.
1.4.9. Pro: Standing for our National Anthem displays respect for our collective institution. Anything else is disrespectful, and that person unfit to be a member.
1.4.10. Pro: All actions NFL players perform any where "on the gridiron" are for what they are paid. Saying not paid to stand for Anthem is akin to saying employees aren't paid to do anything but work, so they are not allowed to do anything else \(e.g., use restroom, make or drink coffee, take a break, socialize\).
1.4.11. Con: No one has suggested that the NFL can't terminate contracts for whatever reason they deem fit. If that's the move they want to make then all that's left is to see the counter move. It would certainly signal some strong indications of their values, and America values freedom of expression pretty highly.
1.4.11.1. Pro: Firing popular players is going to have some pretty harsh backlash from the public, especially if it is seen as a way to snub them, or their beliefs.
1.4.11.2. Con: We are also a country that values respect for the flag and what it represents. The NFL risks losing \(has lost\) a significant percentage of their audience by not doing more to ensure respect for the flag.
1.4.12. Con: Kaepernick used to sit out, and there was no controversy there. So, standing for the Anthem is not reasonably part of their job. The question is whether football players deserve the First Amendment right to make a demonstration.
1.4.12.1. Con: Although Kaepernick got plenty of attention, it was negative and the real reason for his protest was not conveyed because it was viewed as disrespect. There are other platforms that could have conveyed the message and voices would have been heard.
1.4.12.2. Con: The First Amendment applies to a.o. laws Congress may pass. It does not mean a private company cannot penalize a private employee for their choices.
1.4.12.2.1. Con: The first amendment exists because it is the right thing to do, saying that someone isn't legally bound to it does not make it right for them not to follow it.
1.4.13. Pro: If you follow the sentiments of the [Town of Greece Vs Galloway](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Town_of_Greece_v._Galloway) Supreme Court ruling -- where prayer is allowed in town meetings, so long as it is consistent with tradition -- then it would be reasonable to assume the NFL can oblige people to stand during the anthem. \(But it is on the NFL to penalize people or not.\)
1.4.13.1. Con: This decision is actually not applicable to this case. In Greece v. Galloway SCOTUS held that a town may permit volunteers to open legislative sessions with a prayer. This is entirely different than \(a\) forcing congress to open with a prayer or \(b\) forcing legislators or citizens to stand for a prayer. SCOTUS, citing the establishment clause and the first amendment, has actually ruled that the State cannot force prayer. [en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Engel_v._Vitale)
1.4.13.2. Con: This is really only relevant to official government events, not private events, even televised ones, like the National Football League.
1.4.14. Con: It may well be in the league/team's legal right to fire players who don't stand for the anthem. But that doesn't change the fact that kneeling may be the right thing to do.
1.4.14.1. Con: The players are contracted to the teams, not the league. Therefore, it is the duty of the teams to make this call.
1.4.14.1.1. Con: The league sets forth strict uniform guidelines on uniforms, conduct, and fines individuals for non-compliance.
1.4.14.1.1.1. Pro: The NFL prohibited [Dallas Strong stickers](https://www.cbssports.com/nfl/news/nfl-wont-let-cowboys-wear-decals-supporting-dallas-police-in-regular-season/) on helmets.
1.4.14.2. Pro: Players in the NFL or other leagues have a unique national platform that reaches people with differing views. It is up to the league whether to discipline but it is a very effective form of protest for those players who feel it necessary to do so.
1.4.14.2.1. Con: NFL players should voluntarily refrain from hijacking a huge audience that's paid to see them perform as athletes and using it as an opportunity to broadcast their political views. If they feel "forced" to do something they can't abide, they should resign their positions.
1.4.14.3. Pro: The Department of Transportation had a legal right to arrest Rosa Parks, but many would still agree she was doing the right thing by protesting.
1.4.15. Con: Supreme Court Case [West Virginia Board of Education v. Barnett](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Virginia_State_Board_of_Education_v._Barnette) in 1943 ruled that an individual cannot be compelled to participate in the pledge or any other flag salute, nor punished for failing to do so.
1.4.15.1. Con: Few people would argue that players should be forced to stand as a matter of law.  Rather, they criticize the kneeling as disrespectful and/or a nonsensible conflation of ideas.
1.4.15.2. Con: WV Board of Education vs Barnett only applies to individuals who are students in compulsory education of the United States and has no bearing on voluntary employees at work.
1.4.15.3. Con: In a private business, \(which the NFL is\) an individual can be punished for what they say. See [www.americanbar.org](https://www.americanbar.org/publications/insights_on_law_andsociety/15/winter-2015/chill-around-the-water-cooler.html)
1.4.15.3.1. Con: To suggest one can face consequences for comments and actions their employer disagrees with, I would assume all negative actions/comments should have the same result, i.e. domestic violence and drug abuse both are illegal and reflect on their employer negatively. However, kneeling for an anthem \(100% legal\) inciting a firing and blackballing from the industry is utterly illogical.
1.4.16. Con: Sometimes, a good cause is more important than a good job.
1.4.16.1. Pro: There is a norm in American society that personal belief and morality can supersede professional obligation in some circumstances. This protection has even occasionally extended to whistleblowers in high security circumstances \(e.g [Presidential Policy Directive 19 \(PPD-19\)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Presidential_Policy_Directive_19)\).  It does not seem proportionate to not offer the same protections to a group of people refusing to partake in a seemingly non-essential component of work because they feel the need to peacefully protest.
1.4.16.1.1. Pro: Gaining national attention gives us an opportunity to reflect on these laws.
1.4.16.1.2. Con: While it is a reasonable argument that whistle-blowers and similar conscientious objectors should be free from prosecution when acting to the benefit of society, there are not many \(if any\) cases where they retain their job afterwards.
1.4.16.2. Pro: Progress is very rarely made without action. This is where trade unionism was born from; coming together to work for progress and change.
1.4.17. Con: Employers do not have an absolute right to determine what their employees "do during work." There are numerous laws that limit this right and protect the rights of employees. EXP: Sec 7 of NLRA guarantees employees' right to self-organize...and to engage in ... concerted activities for the purpose of...mutual aid or protection." [nlrb.gov](https://www.nlrb.gov/rights-we-protect/whats-law/employers/interfering-employee-rights-section-7-8a1)
1.5. Pro: Standing for the National Anthem is tradition.
1.5.1. Con: Traditions do not have intrinsic moral value. Before 1942, it was tradition to address the flag with a [Bellamy salute](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bellamy_salute), but this was stopped, due to its similarity to the Nazi salute.
1.5.2. Con: -> See 1.3.10.2.
1.5.3. Con: Tradition is not sufficient justification to continue doing something. Slavery was also a tradition, but not at all a good one. Our past can inform our future, but it should not dictate it.
1.5.3.1. Con: Slavery is not comparable to the question of standing or kneeling. After all, it is a choice for the individual alone while slavery affected another person.
1.5.3.1.1. Con: It is an apt comparison to the excuse that we should stand because of tradition. The point was made to emphasis that traditions are not always better and some traditions deserve to be changed or eliminated all together especially when harmful to others.
1.5.3.1.2. Con: The kneeling is an act of protest against a racist institution \(the police\), which is, in fact, comparable to the institution of slavery, as both of them are racist institutions.
1.5.4. Pro: Tradition is important in that it forms a sense of community. In [families](https://bay.ifas.ufl.edu/newsletters/2013/02/13/traditions-help-bind-us-together-as-a-family/), for example, traditions bind them together.
1.5.4.1. Con: Breaking tradition is a time honored way of showing how important a message or voice is needing to be heard.  Breaking such tradition in a nonviolent way is the epitome of Martin Luther King's philosophy of nonviolence.
1.5.4.2. Con: When an entire race of fellow Americans are subjugated to second class citizenry and harassed without recourse or due process of law, we cannot expect them to adhere to these standards of how to build community. In fact, we should be building community by kneeling as well.
1.5.5. Con: Tradition isn't always worth following, especially during a protest.
1.5.5.1. Pro: Times of protests are times when society and its tradition changes. Traditions like the system of estates of the [Ancien Regime](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ancien_R%C3%A9gime#Downfall) in France were overtaken by the protests of the French Revolution, for example.
1.5.5.2. Pro: Protests are often directed against traditions. For example, the [1968 protests in Germany](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_student_movement) were directed against the conservative traditions of the protesters' parents.
1.5.5.3. Con: The purpose of protests is to garner attention and sympathy to a lack of unity and shared sense of belonging that is felt on the part of the protesters. Rejecting a ritual whose entire intent is to engender the very unity and shared sense of belonging the protesters seek for themselves, is counterproductive to the goals of the protest itself. It furthers the sense of division by adding new sources of conflict.
1.5.5.3.1. Pro: A better solution would be to publicly embrace the national anthem itself, specifically to further the end goal of unity, while finding a different avenue to draw continued attention to the cause of eliminating racism that does not produce the same unintended consequence of increased divisiveness.
1.5.6. Pro: Tradition [honors your ancestors' struggles](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/katharine-rose/why-traditions-matter_b_6993290.html).
1.5.6.1. Con: Tradition honors our ancestor's struggles, but we do not all have the same ancestors. My ancestors protested injustice and discrimination, so kneeling can be seen as an honorable way to demonstrate and respect their struggle.
1.5.6.2. Con: Our ancestors are dead. There is no need for every person to honor them in every way.
1.5.6.2.1. Con: Ancestors might be dead, but the memory of them is what defines us today.
1.5.6.2.1.1. Pro: Even though the Founding Fathers are long dead, their ideals keep thriving in Americans and the way they look at the world.
1.5.6.2.1.2. Con: It's an incorrect assertion that not only is every ancestor's action and memory sacred, but that everyone is defined by and agrees with progenitors.
1.5.7. Con: By going against the grain of tradition, the action -- and thus the cause -- gain a lot of extra attention that it might not otherwise.
1.5.7.1. Con: Political protests should take place off the field so that the subject can be explained further and questions about why kneeling during the national anthem is necessary. People are confused as to what exactly is being protested.
1.5.7.1.1. Pro: Players should not be forced to stand, but these players have a unique celebrity that suggest they have more effective methods OFF the field to affect change.
1.5.7.1.1.1. Con: Celebrities tend to have the most influence when "on the field" where they can gain attention from more people than "off the field" during which they are mainly followed by their closest fans.
1.5.7.1.2. Pro: Their actions have incited anger because the disrespect to our flag, which has eclipsed the issues that are important to them.
1.5.7.1.2.1. Con: The opinion that kneeling \(or any other form of protest\) during the national anthem is disrespectful is not universally held; seeing the athletes being forced to participate also incites anger.
1.5.8. Con: It is tradition to kneel when presenting a flag to the family of a fallen service member. Military personnel kneel to show respect for our fallen. In this case, the fallen are citizens rather than military so kneeling is a respectful tradition.
1.5.8.1. Con: This is an excellent tradition to stay true to when dealing with a fallen soldier, however being at a sporting event is much different and thus requires a different approach.
1.6. Con: The players should avoid the National Anthem entirely.
1.6.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.10.2.
1.6.2. Pro: Sports should be apolitical.
1.6.2.1. Con: With the platform the NFL has, being apolitical is not an option. It may very well be the smartest business decision; however, it becomes impossible once players take action on their own terms.
1.6.2.2. Pro: The Pittsburgh Steelers, with the exception of one player, stayed off field during the national anthem because they thought it would distract from their jobs.
1.6.2.2.1. Con: When the Pittsburgh Steelers stayed in the locker room during the national anthem they were [considered by many](http://nypost.com/2017/09/26/steelers-desperately-try-to-get-out-of-anthem-protest-spotlight/) to be boycotting in an even more defiant manner than those taking a knee -- even though they did so in an attempt to steer clear of the controversy entirely.
1.6.2.2.2. Con: It distracted them from their jobs either way. The distraction is unavoidable now irrespective of action.
1.6.2.3. Con: Everything is interrelated, so avoiding politics is impossible.
1.6.2.4. Con: When sports are a source of pride on the international stage, they can have huge political significance.
1.6.2.4.1. Pro: Anthems, when used for teams in a competition between countries, makes sense. When used for national sports as opposed to international sports, it seems strange from outside the US, particularly as athletes could be from anywhere in the world and are not representing the US specifically.
1.6.2.4.2. Pro: At the Olympics in 1956, 1960 & 1964 a [United Team of Germany](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Team_of_Germany) competed. This helped to preserve a spirit of common bonds between the otherwise divided countries.
1.6.2.4.3. Pro: The Olympics is the most international of all sporting events and is the ultimate display of national pride since it is literally a competition to see which country has produced the best athletes.
1.6.2.4.3.1. Con: The most popular team sports \(Association Football, Cricket, Rugby\) do not care about the Olympics and their mass fanbase derive pride from the respective World Cups.
1.6.2.5. Con: Avoiding the issue is, by itself, a political stance.
1.6.2.5.1. Pro: ["All that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing."](https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Edmund_Burke)
1.6.2.6. Pro: Patriotic feelings should not belong in the international sports world.
1.6.2.6.1. Con: If this were the case, then national anthems should be banned completely.
1.6.2.6.1.1. Pro: It is hypocritical to say that anthems -- which are a display of patriotism -- should be allowed in sporting matches but citizens shouldn't be allowed to voice other patriotic concerns at that time.
1.6.2.6.1.1.1. Pro: To allow anthems but ban protestation of them is to demand blind allegiance to a nation. As history has shown us repeatedly, this is a dangerous thing.
1.6.2.6.2. Con: Sports are inherently a display of civic pride; whether it be local, national, or international.
1.6.2.6.2.1. Pro: Many sports are intimately linked to nationalist ideals, and thus the success or failure of international teams can literally shape a nation's identity.
1.6.2.6.2.1.1. Pro: The popularity of certain sports is often linked to a nation's cultural and political history.
1.6.2.6.2.1.1.1. Pro: For example, cricket was, and still is predominantly played by [nations which were colonised by Great Britain](http://newhistories.group.shef.ac.uk/wordpress/wordpress/not-quite-cricket-%E2%80%93-crickets-relationship-with-british-colonialism/).
1.6.2.6.2.1.1.2. Pro: Some sporting competitions, like the [Commonwealth Games](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commonwealth_Games), are directly linked to a nation's political and diplomatic alliances.
1.6.2.6.2.1.1.3. Pro: The [South African rugby team](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Africa_national_rugby_union_team#Apartheid_and_transformation) has come to function as a symbol of the post-apartheid nation.
1.6.2.6.2.1.2. Pro: The victory of a national sporting team is often portrayed as a victory for the entire country.
1.6.2.6.2.1.2.1. Pro: For example, when Australia first won the America's Cup sailing race in 1983, Prime Minister Bob Hawke [declared a public holiday](http://www.smh.com.au/sport/hawke-relives-cups-glory-days-when-no-boss-wanted-to-be-labelled-a-bum-20130926-2ugzt.html) for citizens to celebrate.
1.6.2.6.2.2. Pro: -> See 1.6.2.4.3.
1.6.2.6.3. Con: The NFL is a US-American sports event, not an international affair, as there are no teams outside the US.
1.6.2.6.3.1. Con: If it is a purely domestic endeavour patriotic feelings do not make a difference as they apply to all teams equally.
1.6.2.6.3.2. Con: Many NFL players are [non-Americans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_foreign_players_in_the_National_Football_League). They give the NFL an international dimension.
1.6.2.6.3.3. Con: The NFL is very popular [outside the US](http://www.americanfootballinternational.com/top-10-countries-nfl-fans-outside-us/) in countries such as Mexico and Brazil.
1.6.2.6.3.3.1. Con: This report is not accurate. There is no way there are almost 20 million NFL fans in Brazil. In Brazil, the NFL is only broadcasted through subscription-based TV, which covers only [49 million](http://www.brasil.gov.br/economia-e-emprego/2012/08/cerca-de-49-milhoes-de-brasileiros-tem-tv-por-assinatura) people. The largest Brazilian public opinion research company Ibope says that only [3,3 Million Brazilians are a Football fan](http://www.theplayoffs.com.br/nfl/pesquisa-do-ibope-aponta-que-33-milhoes-de-brasileiros-sao-fas-de-futebol-americano/).
1.6.2.6.4. Pro: Sport builds bridges among cultures.
1.6.2.6.5. Con: Patriotic feelings in sport can help reconcilliation.
1.6.2.6.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.6.2.4.2.
1.6.2.6.5.2. Con: When the patriotism in question is controversial or partisan in nature, it creates conflict that is unrelated to the game. This is negative because sports are often appreciated as an escape from the more consequential conflicts of politics and everyday life.
1.6.2.6.5.3. Pro: -> See 1.1.2.5.1.2.3.
1.6.2.6.6. Con: There is no clear reason why any place should be devoid of free expression.
1.6.2.7. Con: Racism has been a part of professional sports since its beginning. Sports has always been political.
1.6.2.7.1. Pro: There was a Negro League in baseball. From 1891 to the 1940s, blacks were [excluded](https://books.google.co.kr/books?id=vXi1BgAAQBAJ&pg=PA85&dq=colored+basketball&hl=en&sa=X&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=colored%20basketball&f=false) from playing on white teams. There were also [segregated](https://books.google.co.kr/books?id=GoeQeMBbSiAC&pg=PA148&lpg=PA148&dq=henry+armstrong+segregated+arenas&source=bl&ots=6XMydmeizd&sig=qW5OePjfEuRlKvaD2xUxBLgkWAk&hl=en&sa=X&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=henry%20armstrong%20segregated%20arenas&f=false) boxing arenas.
1.6.3. Pro: Avoiding the anthem avoids the associated political controversy.
1.6.3.1. Con: Avoiding the anthem can be viewed as a political statement in and of itself.
1.6.3.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.6.2.2.1.
1.6.4. Pro: The anthem is a largely symbolic gesture in sports all over the world. If it's going to be politically polarizing, it should be avoided entirely.
1.6.5. Pro: The US doesn't act in a way that justifies to celebrate it with pride.
1.6.5.1. Con: -> See 1.1.2.3.2.1.
1.6.6. Pro: It would be best if all sports were just that. Sports. The NFL should make a rule that nobody comes onto the field until right before the game begins.
1.6.7. Pro: It adds more time at the start of the game. This feels appropriate at finals and special occasions but is an incongruous, unnecessary prelude to an average league game.
1.6.8. Con: If the players' contract says stand, they are on the clock, and they should honor the contract and stand.
1.6.8.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.
1.6.8.2. Con: It's actually illegal to force someone to participate in a patriotic display, so even if it is in their contract, it's not an enforceable clause.
1.6.9. Con: Not coming out for the anthem would take away the attention from the players that are protesting. If they want to protest then they should be on the field so people can see them.
1.6.10. Con: Avoiding the topic entirely is dismissive of the valid concerns of players protesting racial injustice.
1.6.10.1. Con: -> See 1.6.3.1.
1.6.10.2. Con: There are ways for people to protest social injustice and inequality independently from choosing a side in the kneeling vs standing debate.
1.6.10.3. Con: The goals of the protest are wrong.
1.6.10.3.1. Con: Even if the goals of the protest are "wrong," it is still allowed by free speech. Therefore, kneeling is fine.
1.6.10.3.1.1. Con: -> See 1.3.5.4.1.
1.6.10.3.1.2. Pro: Allowing such a thing as "wrong goals" to dictate free speech leads to authoritarian governing.
1.6.10.3.2. Con: The players should point out that their protest was hijacked by making you believe it was about the National Anthem, soldiers, and patriotism, instead of the abuse of an entire race of people.
1.6.10.3.2.1. Con: The National Anthem represents both the good and bad of America, so when you kneel during The National Anthem you are also protesting the good things.
1.6.10.3.2.1.1. Con: Any communication is a combination of what is said, and what is heard. The protesters clearly believe they are only protesting the bad in America when they protest during the National Anthem. If you choose to interpret protesting the National Anthem as protesting the good in America, that's an understanding you've willfully imposed, and is not meant by Kap.
1.6.10.3.3. Con: The goal of the protest is controversial; however, the protest itself is peaceful, to the point, and not harming anyone.
1.6.10.3.4. Pro: They are trying to speak out against apparent racism and inequality, but by doing it this way, they protest everything the US stands for, as well as all the soldiers who lost their lives under that flag.
1.6.10.3.5. Con: A protest, by definition, is not goal oriented. It is simply a display of disapproval over a certain object/subject.
1.6.10.3.5.1. Con: Protests are goal-oriented, by definition.  One does not protest for the sake of protesting, but rather to force a change.
1.6.10.3.5.2. Con: To protest is to object to or reject something that is otherwise accepted or allowed. The goal of any protest is change what is accepted.
1.6.10.3.6. Con: Racial inequity in America is a significant social ill that requires change, and any form of non-violent protest of that inequity, even one that makes others uncomfortable, should be supported.
1.6.10.3.6.1. Pro: Kneeling acknowledges that police violence against unarmed Black citizens is an issue America needs to address.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1. Con: Statistics do not support claims of systemic racism that is the basis for the kneeling.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1. Pro: Black people are statistically more likely than their white counterparts to commit crimes.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1.1. Pro: In 2013, there were 6,214,194 white Americans and 2,549,655 black Americans [arrested](https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2013/crime-in-the-u.s.-2013/tables/table-43) for crimes. Based on [population](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demography_of_the_United_States#Race_and_ethnicity) ratios at the time, whites commit 2,668 crimes per 100K citizens and blacks commit 6,389 crimes per 100K citizens. Blacks are 2.4 times more likely to commit crimes than whites.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1.1.1. Pro: In 2013, there were 228,782 white Americans and 151,627 black Americans [arrested](https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2013/crime-in-the-u.s.-2013/tables/table-43) for violent crimes. Based on [population](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demography_of_the_United_States#Race_and_ethnicity) ratios at the time, whites committed 98 violent crimes per 100K citizens and blacks committed 380 violent crimes per 100K citizens. Blacks are 3.9 times more likely to commit violent crimes than whites.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1.1.1.1. Con: These statistics only show that black people are arrested at a higher rate. They do not show that black people commit crime at a higher rate. [Drug usage is roughly equal between white and black people](http://www.icpsr.umich.edu/quicktables/quickconfig.do?34481-0001_all), but [black people are more likely to be arrested for it](https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2013/crime-in-the-u.s.-2013/tables/table-43).
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1.1.2. Con: A large percentage of crimes [go unsolved](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/03/01/most-violent-and-property-crimes-in-the-u-s-go-unsolved/) in the US. Because black people are arrested more frequently does not necessarily indicate that more crimes are committed by black people.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1.1.3. Con: Convictions are [overturned at a higher rate for black people](http://www.law.umich.edu/special/exoneration/Documents/Race_and_Wrongful_Convictions.pdf).
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1.1.4. Con: Even if we concede the parent, and ignore that the parent only talks about arrests \(verses crime rates\), there is still clear evidence of systemic racism in the justice system. [African Americans are incarcerated in state prisons across the country at more than five times the rate of whites, and at least ten times the rate in five states.](http://www.sentencingproject.org/publications/color-of-justice-racial-and-ethnic-disparity-in-state-prisons/) which shows that even if we assume African Americans commit crimes at 2.4 times the rate of white Americans, they are still twice as likely to be incarcerated.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1.1.5. Con: Racial disparities in arrest rates are [sometimes ruled discriminatory](https://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/13/opinion/racial-discrimination-in-stop-and-frisk.html). The parent claim conflates arrest statistics and crime rate statistics, showing only that African American men are arrested more,[not that they are more likely to commit crimes.](http://www.slate.com/blogs/crime/2013/06/04/marijuana_possession_laws_aclu_report_why_blacks_are_four_times_more_likely.html)
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1.2. Con: Whether black people are more or less likely to commit crimes does not excuse the use of unreasonable force, especially when that force leads to death. Unreasonable force is being used. [Video evidence](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/08/19/us/police-videos-race.html) shows several instances when black people were not resisting an arrest \(lawful or otherwise\) and were still abused or killed.

This argument is an attempt to change the narrative of Kaepernick's protest.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1.3. Con: This is not a matter of race; it's one of societal advantage versus disadvantage.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1.3.1. Pro: Disparities in crime rates of blacks vs. whites stem from the [systemic racism](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/apr/09/bill-clinton-black-culture-systemic-inequality-problems) in the US that has kept so many black people in economic and social duress. Many turn to crime because they feel they have no alternatives.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1.4. Con: [Studies](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/apr/09/bill-clinton-black-culture-systemic-inequality-problems) have shown that in actuality, the crime rates of Blacks and whites are similar when the people being compared are of a similar income. It's only when the comparison is putting upper-middle-class people against middle- and lower-income people that the rates are skewed to make Black people appear more likely to commit crime.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.1.5. Con: Higher rates of policing in black communities, as well as more stringent policing, lead to bloated statistics that would make one believe that people of color commit more crimes than whites. If I am not randomly stopped, or stopped for menial violations \(like a broken tail light in my car\) then the likelihood that I'd be caught doing some other, more serious crime, is greatly reduced.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.2. Con: The protest isn't about systemic racism, it is about racial inequality and that many Americans choose to ignore that inequality.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.2.1. Con: The protest is about systemic racism. Kaepernick [said](http://www.nfl.com/news/story/0ap3000000691077/article/colin-kaepernick-explains-why-he-sat-during-national-anthem): "I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color." Purposeful social inequalities amounts to systemic racism.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.3. Con: A history of systemic racism is well documented, including such practices as [Redlining](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redlining), [Racial Restrictive Covenants](http://depts.washington.edu/civilr/covenants.htm), and [disparities in the GI Bill.](https://www.demos.org/blog/11/11/13/how-gi-bill-left-out-african-americans) This financial systemic racism has lead to a society where African Americans have less wealth, less homeownership, and less educational opportunities, which is systemic racism.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.4. Pro: Once an encounter has begun, black people are not more likely to get shot than white people. There is therefore no systemic racism during an encounter with police. [nytimes.com](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/12/upshot/surprising-new-evidence-shows-bias-in-police-use-of-force-but-not-in-shootings.html)
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.5. Con: People do not have be to be right about an issue to be allowed to demonstrate their perception of it, so such a point would be irrelevant anyway.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.6. Pro: FBI statistics do not show that there is a basis to claim systemic racism.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.6.1. Con: Investigations, such as [DOJ investigation of system racism in Ferguson](http://time.com/3730894/ferguson-investigation-justice-racism/) show systemic bias in many police forces.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.6.2. Con: Numerous articles and studies have covered the inaccuracies in police-involved shootings that the FBI records. [themarshallproject.org](https://www.themarshallproject.org/2015/07/02/is-google-more-accurate-than-the-fbi)
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.6.3. Con: In 2016, James Comey claimed reports on this topic were under-reported, and therefore such trends aren't discoverable. [edition.cnn.com](http://edition.cnn.com/2016/10/16/politics/fbi-director-police-shootings/index.html) Therefore, it is misleading to say they don't support the claim, as they are incomplete and that's not their purpose.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.6.4. Con: The FBI doesn't have statistics on officer involved shootings. It is misleading to claim that the FBI's findings don't support these claims.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.7. Con: Black Americans are statistically more likely than their white counterparts to be stopped, shot, and subjected to greater degrees of force in encounters with police.

Here is a [compendium](https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2016/07/data-police-racial-bias) containing links to a variety of studies that explore this issue.
1.6.10.3.6.1.1.7.1. Pro: -> See 1.6.10.3.6.1.1.6.1.
1.6.10.3.6.1.2. Con: While the act of kneeling may acknowledge that there is police violence against unarmed Black citizens, it may also acknowledge the police violence of armed Black citizens.
1.6.10.3.6.2. Con: Kneeling draws attention to the player and allows those who disagree with the protest to react against the individual, rather than the issue being protested.
1.6.10.3.6.2.1. Con: Kneeling, in a group, such as [Group of NFL players kneeling](https://www.bing.com/images/search?view=detailV2&ccid=V%2fAHQ6no&id=6162569F2530F03D9AB692EA124FC318F56EA2CB&thid=OIP.V_AHQ6nogRxdf9auGQT9oAHaFj&mediaurl=http%3a%2f%2fcontent.khou.com%2fphoto%2f2017%2f10%2f29%2f636448907149525739-USP-NFL-HOUSTON-TEXANS-AT-SEATTLE-SEAHAWKS-94947561_1509310280231_11506911_ver1.0.JPG&exph=401&expw=534&q=kneeling+nfl+groups&simid=608051377496787144&selectedIndex=2), does not draw attention to the individual, but shows strong group solidarity.
1.6.10.3.6.2.2. Con: A [CBS/YouGov poll](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/how-do-americans-feel-about-the-nfl-protests-it-depends-on-how-you-ask/) showed "A large majority \(73 percent\) of respondents said the players were trying to call attention to racism … 40 percent said the protests were trying to disrespect the flag". Therefore, some people simultaneously believe that players are trying to call attention to racism AND protests are disrespecting the flag. Therefore, its' not true that "no one is thinking about their cause except people who wholeheartedly agree with them".
1.6.10.3.7. Pro: -> See 1.6.10.3.6.1.1.
1.6.10.3.8. Pro: There is no special violence of the police against African Americans.
1.6.10.3.8.1. Pro: 50% of police shootings involve white men, while only 26% involve black men. African Americans make up only 13% of the population, while whites make up 62%. However, 67% of burglaries, 57% of murders, and 45% of assaults are committed by African Americans. When all that is taken into account it is clear police are far harder on whites than on African Americans. [ucr.fbi.gov](https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2013/crime-in-the-u.s.-2013/tables/table-43)
1.6.10.3.8.1.1. Con: The argument above argues that African Americans commit 67% of the burglaries, but the link states that African Americans are arrested and charged in 67% of the burglary arrests. These are fundamentally different statistics, and [biases in arrest rates](https://betterexplained.com/articles/understanding-the-birthday-paradox/) mean that we cannot assume they mean the same thing.
1.6.10.3.8.1.2. Con: As of August 2017, [581 people had been killed by the police](https://www.statista.com/statistics/585152/people-shot-to-death-by-us-police-by-race/). Of these, 127 victims were black, which is 20.8% of people shot by police that year. As black people make up only 13% of the population, they are over represented in police shooting statistics.
1.6.10.3.8.1.3. Con: Black people are [more likely](http://www.latimes.com/science/sciencenow/la-sci-sn-cops-race-injury-20160725-snap-story.html) to get stopped by police \(and therefore killed by police\) and it has been proven that police are [more polite](http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/police-respect-whites-blacks-traffic-stops-language-analysis-finds/) to white people during traffic stops.
1.6.10.3.8.1.4. Con: African-Americans are incarcerated at [5 times the rate](http://www.naacp.org/criminal-justice-fact-sheet/) of white people.
1.6.10.3.8.1.5. Con: [Studies](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/08/us/study-supports-suspicion-that-police-use-of-force-is-more-likely-for-blacks.html) have shown that law enforcement are more likely to use force against Black people.
1.6.10.3.8.2. Con: [75 percent](http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2015/11/police-nonfatal-force-doj-report.html) of African Americans stopped by police reported excessive force of some kind.
1.6.10.3.8.2.1. Con: This is untrue. The study claims that "About 75 percent of those who had encountered force from the police perceived the force to be excessive." This is not limited to Black males, but is explicitly stated to be referring to ["44 million U.S. residents older than 16 who had at least one face-to-face contact with police between 2002 and 2011."](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/black-americans-more-susceptible-to-nonfatal-force-by-police-doj-says/2015/11/14/07eb61ee-8b18-11e5-9a07-453018f9a0ec_story.html?utm_term=.3aaba6244e1a)
1.6.10.3.8.3. Con: The protest issue is quite valid. 35% of unarmed people killed by police were black, almost triple the percent of black people in the population. [www.diversityinc.com](https://www.diversityinc.com/news/data-police-disproportionately-killed-black-people-2017)
1.6.10.3.8.4. Pro: Police violence against African American men is rare. For example, only [16 unarmed African American men](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/451466/police-violence-against-black-men-rare-heres-what-data-actually-say) were fatally shot in the US in 2016.
1.6.10.3.8.4.1. Con: There is no uniform guidelines set for data collection when it comes to shootings by the police. Any broad sets of data making claims about the total number of shootings should be viewed with giant grains of salt.
1.6.10.3.8.4.2. Con: The issue is not so much the absolute number of deaths, but rather the proportion of deaths for each subset of the population \(in this case, Whites vs. Blacks\). Regardless of the absolute numbers, if the number of deaths per person or even per police contact is higher, then disparity exists and needs to be addressed.
1.6.10.3.8.4.3. Con: Of the 266 Black men killed by cops in 2016, [42 were unarmed](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/ng-interactive/2015/jun/01/the-counted-police-killings-us-database).
1.6.10.3.8.4.3.1. Con: The study cited by the Washington Post suggests that only [19 unarmed Black males](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/national/police-shootings-2016/) were killed, whereas the study presented above by the Guardian claims that only 39 unarmed black males were killed. It's clear from their reports that there are significant disparities between their methodologies. Both these studies need to be highly scrutinized before being presented as viable evidence for either pros or cons.
1.6.10.3.8.5. Pro: Black and White males do have roughly equally contact with the police. On average, [~0.3 times](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/451466/police-violence-against-black-men-rare-heres-what-data-actually-say) per year.
1.6.10.3.8.5.1. Con: Equal contact does not mean equal outcomes. Here's an extreme example: If White males were to have a rate of contact at 20 times per year and experience non-lethal force half the time and Black males only once per year and always experience non-lethal force, then there is a disparity that favors White males.
1.6.10.3.8.5.2. Con: Black Americans are [more than twice as likely](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/black-americans-more-susceptible-to-nonfatal-force-by-police-doj-says/2015/11/14/07eb61ee-8b18-11e5-9a07-453018f9a0ec_story.html?utm_term=.3163845e5306) as white Americans to experience non­fatal force or the threat of force from police.
1.6.10.3.8.6. Pro: Only [0.6%](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/451466/police-violence-against-black-men-rare-heres-what-data-actually-say) of black men experience physical force by the police in any given year.
1.6.10.3.8.6.1. Con: -> See 1.6.10.3.8.2.
1.6.10.3.8.6.2. Con: The very study quoted above claims that 0.2% of White men experience physical force. Though the absolute numbers may be small, the disparity exists and must be discussed and addressed in order to get to the root of the issue.
1.6.10.3.8.6.3. Con: A physical force rate of [0.6%/year](https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/09/police-violence-against-black-men-rare-heres-what-data-actually-say/) means the average African American male had a 35% chance the police will use force on him in a lifetime \(72 years\). The claim uses “only” to minimize the perceived likelihood, but a 35% chance in a lifetime is much too common, and supports the claim that there is special violence by police against African American men.
1.6.10.3.8.6.3.1. Pro: A chance of 0.6% that force is used means that there's a 100%-0.6%=99.4% chance force isn't used, every year. If we assume events are independent, the chance someone doesn't have force used against them for 2 years is \(1-0.006\)^2. Extending, the chance to not have force used against a person for n years is \(1-0.006\)^n. The chance of having force used against you at least once for n years is 1-\(1-0.006\)^n. Substituting for n=72, [probability=35%.](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=\(1-Power\(1-0.006,72\)\)*100)
1.6.10.3.8.6.3.1.1. Pro: It's likely that the probability isn't 0.6%/year for a lifetime \(since 1 year olds rarely have force threatened/used against them\), so NFL players are likely at the age where their probability is higher than 0.6%/year. Without some understanding of how that probability changes over a lifetime, we can't calculate anything specific, but only realize that an NFL player probably experiences a value of much higher than 0.6% for his friends.
1.6.10.3.8.6.3.1.2. Con: It's unlikely the events are independent, which means it's likely that some people are threatened with force multiple times, and the parent claim overestimates the probability. Without knowing how regular it is for police to threaten the same person multiple times in a lifetime, it's impossible to calculate the actual percentage, and the percentage of people who are threatened repeatedly.
1.6.10.3.8.6.4. Con: Police physical force rate of [0.2%/year](https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/09/police-violence-against-black-men-rare-heres-what-data-actually-say/) for White men means a lifetime rate [of 13%.](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=\(1-\(1-0.002\)%5E72\)*100) Comparing this against the 35% for African American men, the statistics show that there is special violence by the police against African Americans.
1.6.10.3.8.7. Pro: African Americans are [more likely](https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/punf0211_sum.pdf) to perceive police action as unjustified.
1.6.10.3.8.7.1. Con: African-Americans' perceptions of police actions being unjustified arise because police actions actually are unjustified.
1.6.10.3.8.7.2. Con: Without knowing what force was applied and what injuries were sustained, we can’t determine if black Americans perceptions were correct or not. From the [article](https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/punf0211_sum.pdf), “those who were injured \(94%\) were more likely to believe the force was excessive than those who were not injured during the contact with police. \(74%\). Overall, blacks \(2.8%\) were more likely than whites \(1.0%\) and Hispanics \(1.4 %\) to perceive the threat or use of nonfatal force was excessive.”
1.6.10.3.8.8. Con: Blacks are [more likely](https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/punf0211_sum.pdf) to experience threat of force, verbal force, and physical force than Whites or Hispanics, during face-to-face contact with police.
1.6.10.3.8.9. Con: -> See 1.6.10.3.8.5.2.
1.6.10.3.9. Pro: The players are earning millions of dollars, and are contracted and ranked by performance. They have not experienced any of the systemic racism they claim exists.
1.6.10.3.9.1. Pro: Only people who are directly affected by systemic racism have any right to protest it in any form.
1.6.10.3.9.1.1. Con: By that logic, men who march with women for their re-productive rights have no right to protest, or children of illegal immigrants have no right to protest immigration laws. It is a well established policy that a person of a different background may see the merit in another's protest and sympathize with it, in which case they have every right to protest police abuse and a discriminatory criminal justice system.
1.6.10.3.9.1.2. Con: Systematic racism effects a community. Therefore, any member of the community is affected by systematic racism. Those protesting are members of the African-American community, which is a community affected by police brutality. These players are affected, their families are affected, and the other members of their community are affected.
1.6.10.3.9.1.3. Con: Systemic racism is wrong, and all Americans have a duty to protest what is wrong, and support what is right.
1.6.10.3.9.2. Pro: Professional players are hypocritical because they protest that freedom isn’t fairly given to them, when they’re the ones who typically have the most freedom due to their high social status.
1.6.10.3.9.2.1. Con: A person’s status doesn’t bar them from acting to better society. Most of our lawmakers are wealthy and we don’t tell them not to make laws. It is the responsibility of those with privilege to act on behalf of those that don’t. Shine a light in places that would otherwise be ignored.
1.6.10.3.9.2.2. Con: People are allowed to protest on the behalf of others.
1.6.10.3.9.2.3. Con: The [laws](http://constitutionus.com/) of the United States do not recognize social status as a measure of one's liberties.  According to [The Declaration of Independence](http://www.ushistory.org/declaration/document/) the rights of people come from their creator and are self-evident.  The national anthem is not established in either of these documents and is therefore tertiary to the natural rights and legal rights of American citizens.
1.6.10.3.9.3. Con: Lack of personal experience with racism does not mean an NFL player cannot make a public statement against it.
1.6.10.3.9.4. Con: The majority of NFL players were not independently wealthy growing up, and so have experienced systemic racism.
1.6.10.3.9.5. Con: The NFL is not a perfect meritocracy where salary is directly and perfectly correlated with performance. Therefore, the players are not shielded from systemic racism.
1.6.10.3.9.5.1. Pro: [Moneyball](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moneyball) tells the story of how the Oakland A's managed to win by more closely approximating a meritocracy. Bill Bean noticed that not all people who "look like" good baseball players are good baseball players, and that some appearances are overvalued. It is likely that similar effects occur in football.
1.6.10.3.9.6. Con: Racism also affects rich black people, like [NFL players](http://profootballtalk.nbcsports.com/2017/07/09/brandon-mebane-experiences-discrimination-in-orange-county/).
1.6.10.3.9.7. Con: NFL players typically have short careers and most of them do not make millions of dollars. [businessinsider.com](http://www.businessinsider.com/charts-expose-how-badly-nfl-players-get-paid-2013-9)
1.6.10.3.9.8. Con: One's earnings and evaluation is not related to their experience with racism.
1.6.10.3.9.9. Con: The NCAA, which most NFL players have been part of, is systematically racist. [washingtonpost.com](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2017/02/04/how-white-racism-keeps-black-college-sports-stars-from-getting-paid/?utm_term=.2b6848a78c0a)
1.6.11. Con: Refusing to take a stand is implicit acceptance of the status quo. If the status quo is unjust, then inaction is complicit in injustice.
1.6.11.1. Con: -> See 1.6.3.1.
1.6.11.2. Con: Just because one refuses to engage in a particular form of protest, or chooses to avoid a particular controversy, does not mean they are doing nothing to address the problem.
1.6.11.2.1. Pro: The same can be said for protesting. Just because one engages in a peaceful form of protest or chooses to address a particular controversy, does not mean that they are being disrespectful or inconsiderate.
1.6.11.3. Pro: Admitting there is a problem is the first step in fixing it. Exhibiting such behavior can activate a domino effect leading to a stronger voice for reform which hopefully would lead to a consensus to change the status quo.
1.6.11.4. Con: -> See 1.6.10.3.
1.6.12. Con: -> See 1.6.3.1.
1.6.13. Pro: As a pastime with such enormous public exposure, any routine must be carefully assessed for conflicts of interest and the potential for being used as political propaganda. It must be made entirely neutral, or represent all viewpoints equally. Anything less is immoral.
1.7. Con: Standing minimizes the issue of police violence against black citizens.
1.7.1. Con: -> See 1.6.10.3.
1.7.2. Pro: Standing implies that it is more important to respect a symbol than it is to address a real problem.
1.7.2.1. Pro: Respecting a symbol does little for the community, but protest has a chance to bring real change and help to those that need it.
1.7.2.2. Con: Symbology is completely subjective. The feelings you have towards one symbol or symbolic gesture may be completely different from the conclusions and judgements made by others.
1.7.2.2.1. Pro: Especially among white conservatives, rejection of the national anthem is seen as a desire to not be unified, to not have a shared sense of belonging, and to reject their own status as equal citizens.
1.7.2.2.1.1. Pro: Since these intentions are the polar opposite of what African Americans are seeking through movements like BLM, kneeling for the National Anthem, though taken with the intention of increasing awareness and influencing change in society to become more unified and equal, actually causes society to be less unified, and more judgemental of African Americans who engage in this form of protest.
1.7.3. Pro: Forcing the players to stand would show contempt for the players' protest.
1.7.4. Con: Kneeling is often interpreted as rejecting the unity and shared sense of belonging the national anthem ritual is meant to foster. This is especially true among white conservatives, which is the very subculture BLM most wants to influence to change. Kneeling only makes the sense of division that BLM seeks to eliminate in society even worse.
1.7.4.1. Con: Black Lives Matter strives to reverse systematic oppression many minorities face, not change the culture and beliefs of white conservatives.
1.7.5. Con: Kneeling during the anthem of a football game has nothing to do with police violence unless one already preconceives that notion.
1.7.5.1. Con: All symbols require context to interpret. That context has been given, and the meaning expressed openly. To feign ignorance of the correlation is dismissive and frankly dishonest. It is the expression of a bias/ contradictory belief, not a legitimate observation of a lack of correlation.
1.7.5.2. Con: Many of the players have voiced strong opinions about the violence and are striving to make that connection in people's minds by making kneeling associated with it.
1.8. Con: Players should be free to partake in respectful protests, including kneeling.
1.8.1. Pro: Kneeling during the national anthem is a form of protest and there isn't any protest criteria that requires the opposing side to feel comfortable with 1\) what is being protested 2\) in what form the protest takes. Players should continue to be allowed to kneel.
1.8.1.1. Pro: All people have the right to sit, kneel, stand, or whatever they want, as long as it does not impede on another's rights. NFL players, and fans, have a right to express their beliefs.
1.8.2. Pro: It is a safe way and place for black people to protest systemic violence whilst also encouraging people to acknowledge that we respect black people when they are in sports or entertainment but not so much in other areas of life.
1.8.3. Pro: The NFL owners passed a [rule](http://time.com/5288795/nfl-national-anthem-kneeling-rule/) stating that the club will be fined if a player kneels. This means the owners are going to pay fines for passing this un-American rule, and not the players. Kneel away.
1.8.4. Pro: Kneeling is a non-violent form of protest that is effective.
1.8.4.1. Con: Different social groups attribute different meanings to the flag. Choosing the flag as the focal point of the protest dilutes the protest's meaning since some people assume you are protesting something else.
1.8.4.2. Pro: Protest only works when it's disruptive. Players know that kneeling will incite a reaction, which necessarily brings attention to the issue of systemic racism.
1.8.4.3. Pro: Peaceful protest is protected under the first Amendment and should be allowed as long as the players make it known that their stance is their own and has nothing to do with their team.
1.8.4.4. Pro: -> See 1.6.10.3.6.
1.8.4.5. Con: It's also a relatively quiet form of protest. The intention and desire can get lost, e.g., following the President's tweets and speeches regarding kneeling, teams remaining in the locker rooms was seen as protest against those statements, not about the original issue.
1.8.4.5.1. Pro: Some things are better left unsaid. People can’t always listen in this loud world. People will remember what someone’s action is.
1.8.4.6. Pro: -> See 1.5.7.
1.8.4.7. Pro: Taking a knee during the national anthem is a social platform for people showing the injustice in minority communities, systemic oppression against people of color, police brutality and the criminal justice system.
1.8.4.7.1. Con: -> See 1.6.10.3.
1.8.4.8. Pro: It draws attention to the cause by committing the person to an action rather than inaction. To stay seated is not an action but to kneel while others stand shows they are actively committed to the cause.
1.8.4.9. Con: Kneeling during the National Anthem is not bringing attention to the issue \(police brutality\) that it was intended to bring. When NFL teams are kneeling, practically no is talking about police brutality, they are talking about how disrespectful it is to kneel during the Anthem.
1.8.4.9.1. Con: When NFL teams kneel, those who watch have a choice on what to talk about -- police brutality, or "disrespect". NFL players cannot force the president, the vice-president, and those watching to address findings of [Ferguson](https://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/04/us/justice-department-finds-pattern-of-police-bias-and-excessive-force-in-ferguson.html), and cannot force those watching to not talk about disrespect. The fact that \(not all\) people are talking about police brutality doesn't mean the protest is ineffective, just that there's political reasons to discuss "disrespect", not fix the problems.
1.8.4.9.2. Con: [Many NFL teams and individual players have meaningfully contributed](https://sports.yahoo.com/nfl-teams-charitable-efforts-part-protests-running-list-134152884.html) towards the causes brought up by the protests. While the public debate often focuses on the issue of respect, there is more debate and action on these issues than there would be in the absence of the protests.
1.8.4.10. Con: Its effect has been more net negative than positive, because it was not coordinated. Kaepernick was able to be pointed out as an isolated case and put in a negative light to many people, to the point where his message was diluted and derailed.
1.8.4.10.1. Con: Lack of coordination is not what caused the negative attention. A coordinated lie that the kneeling was disrespectful and people's desire to believe that lie instead of the truth, \(which is that the kneeling was done to bring attention to disproportionate police brutality against minorities\) combined with a lack of desire to have an honest and open dialogue is what makes the entire message negative.
1.8.4.10.2. Con: The effect is not quantifiable.
1.8.5. Pro: Kneeling for the anthem is a way for professional athletes to fight for the same freedoms our veterans have fought for.  Kneeling athletes and American soldiers ultimately fight for the same thing, just in very different ways.
1.8.5.1. Pro: American soldiers swear an oath to protect and defend the constitution, not traditions, values or "our way of life". The constitution was designed to protect man's natural rights and soldiers protect the constitution, hence protecting the rights of man. Kneeling athletes and soldiers are fighting for the same principle...the natural rights of all men.
1.8.6. Con: Kneeling leads to a lot of NFL fans becoming unhappy, leading to a drop in ratings, causing a drop in profit by the NFL, and in turn, decreased pay for the players.
1.8.6.1. Pro: The NFL is a business and will suffer the free market that will correct the mistakes of management and players over time. Kneeling is a poor choice for any business. Employees alienate customers in an organized way. The NFL should seek a \(players\) win-win \(fans\) compromise. Suggestion: Ban any negative protesting. Accommodate-aid positive awareness outreach by the players.
1.8.7. Con: The NFL is a private business and kneeling subjects that business to an unrelated political morass. It has a negative effect on public relations by virtue of creating and perpetuating a political argument that damages the NFL no matter how it responds. It is bad to force one's employer to pay an unnecessary and unwanted cost to promote an arbitrary cause of your own choosing.
1.8.8. Con: Kneeling is disrespectful.
1.8.8.1. Con: To "take a knee" is a sports phrase that connotes "passing" or "surrendering your option to act". Players taking a knee are "passing" on the option of saluting our nation. Not a criticism, just an abstention.
1.8.8.2. Con: The misconception that kneeling is disrespectful can be avoided if athletes combine it with a sign of respect, like placing their hand over their heart while they kneel.
1.8.8.3. Con: Kneeling is being interpreted by many football fans, in this context, as disrespectful. Football fans are free to impose their own narratives onto the players actions, but, if football fans do, there's no way to respectfully protest, since any protest could be interpreted as disrespectful.
1.8.8.4. Pro: -> See 1.3.5.
1.8.8.5. Pro: By kneeling during times of [national crisis](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4942970/Three-Kansas-City-Chiefs-players-not-stand-anthem.html), such as after the Las Vegas shootings, many see kneeling NFL players as a sign of disrespect to the victims.
1.8.8.5.1. Con: They are kneeling as a sign of acknowledgement and respect for the victims of unnecessary police brutality. How can kneeling to pay respects to some victims, be considered disrespectful to other victims?
1.8.8.5.2. Con: -> See 1.3.4.2.
1.8.8.5.3. Con: And yet, historically, kneeling in mourning has happened so prominently that art \(statues and paintings\) has been made of the act.

[Angels Kneeling in Mourning at a Memorial](http://www.classichostess.com/media/catalog/product/cache/1/image/9df78eab33525d08d6e5fb8d27136e95/w/u/wu75628vb-l.jpg)

[A Tomb with a Similar Motif](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-SW_rcr4oyOM/UumGXUsTSyI/AAAAAAAAQt8/lTh-ZAt20D8/s1600/Woman+kneeling+at+grave+mourning.JPG)
1.8.8.6. Con: Kneeling is a posture that evokes prayer/silent thought about a subject. During the national anthem, kneeling shows the person is praying for the nation or wishing the nation well.
1.8.8.6.1. Pro: Kneeling is humbling, and professional athletes seldom express such humility. It is a show of humility and reverence for those that suffer at the hands of others.
1.8.8.7. Con: Kneeling, to a non-American observer, especially with hand on heart, seems to be, at least visually, a very respectful physical posture, possibly more respectful than standing.
1.8.8.7.1. Pro: In fact, only a few years ago genuflexion would have been seen as more respectful than standing in the US as well. It may be that it it's still considered more respectful with an exception being made for this one special case.
1.8.8.8. Con: Peaceful protest is actually a form of patriotism because it is pushing to make our country a better place. The ability to  make the USA better is one of the best parts about this nation.
1.8.8.9. Con: In the Supreme Court case of [Texas v. Johnson](http://www.uscourts.gov/educational-resources/educational-activities/facts-and-case-summary-texas-v-johnson), it was determined that burning the American flag peacefully was legal under the First Amendment right to free expression.  Specifically, the Supreme Court said that "society's outrage alone is not justification for suppressing free speech." The same principle applies here: Although kneeling during the national anthem may incite social outrage, this is not enough to validate censorship of a non-violent expression such as this.
1.8.8.10. Con: Kneeling is a sign of respect.
1.8.8.10.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.4.1.
1.8.8.10.2. Pro: Kneeling can be just as respectful as standing, hence the saying "Take a knee". That it flouts tradition just draws attention and is not in and of itself inherently disrespectful.
1.8.8.10.3. Pro: Throughout history, kneeling has frequently been used to show respect and reverence.
1.8.8.10.3.1. Pro: Kneel for the king, kneel for the person in power \(usually a dictatorship, but still\). Individuals kneel when they are knighted. And out of respect for fallen soldiers, we kneel or bow our head.
1.8.8.10.3.2. Pro: -> See 1.3.5.6.
1.8.8.10.3.3. Pro: In sects of both Christianity and Islam, [kneeling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kneeling) is the proper position to take when praying as a means to show reverence for God.
1.8.8.10.3.4. Pro: [Genuflection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genuflection) -- the act of taking a single knee -- has not only been used in a variety of religious practices but has also been used for centuries as a way to show respect for royalty.
1.8.8.10.3.4.1. Pro: Genuflection is also the standard pose taken when the folded flag of a fallen veteran is presented to the veteran's family.
1.8.8.10.3.4.1.1. Pro: It is highly hypocritical to say that those who kneel during the anthem are disrespecting veterans and the flag when that same exact pose is used by military members as a means of conveying respect for their fallen comrades.
1.8.8.10.3.4.1.1.1. Pro: [We're all hypocrites](https://www.thomasvan.com/human-psychology/everybodys-a-hypocrite), each and every one of us! The 'key' is to keep 'judging others' to a minimum.
1.8.8.10.4. Pro: Kneeling is a sign of total respect to a superior, so NFL players should kneel.
1.8.8.10.5. Con: Kneeling during the tradition to stand is not respect.
1.8.8.10.5.1. Con: -> See 1.3.4.2.1.1.
1.8.8.10.6. Pro: The protesters could be raising their middle fingers during the anthem to express their discontent. Rather, they are maintaining a level of respect for the flag/anthem/country by kneeling, while also making themselves stand out, which brings attention to their cause. This was their intent all along.
1.8.8.10.7. Pro: When a player is seriously injured in a game it is customary for players to kneel out of respect. Our justice system \(i.e. government\) is itself injured right now, and the flag is the manifestation of that government. As such, it is respectful to kneel in protest of injustice. They are supporting the flag by providing critiques of what they love dearly in the hopes that they can help make it better.
1.8.8.10.7.1. Pro: This demonstrates how kneeling is already established as a mark of respect within the context of a football game.
1.8.8.10.7.2. Con: This is a communication problem. Kneeling instead of standing doesn't send the same message to all people. Instead of hearing this message that the country is sick, a lot of people hear the message that these players don't respect the flag/anthem and, by extension, they don't respect America.
1.8.8.10.7.2.1. Con: When protesting injustice, effective communication is always a problem. Those who support the status quo will always misunderstand and misconstrue the intent of the action.
1.8.8.10.7.3. Con: Comparing our etiquette to injured players to an injured political system is just an unfair comparison. Comparing two unconnected things and then personifying a political entity doesn't justify kneeling. We should be standing because of the good things we have done, giving people rights, making people equal, etc. Those are reasons to stand for our flag, the current political climate should not discourage us from uniting around great American values.
1.8.8.10.7.3.1. Con: The idea is that people are, in fact, not treated equally, making it harder to stand for that. Demanding respect is not an effective way of earning respect.
1.8.8.10.8. Con: -> See 1.3.4.
1.8.8.10.9. Con: -> See 1.3.5.
1.8.8.11. Con: We kneel when we propose. That is not disrespect.
1.8.8.11.1. Con: The meaning of a symbol is contextual.  What may be interpreted as an A-OK sign in some cultures is offensive in others.  Kneeling during a proposal does not imply that kneeling at all other times is respectful.
1.8.8.12. Pro: -> See 1.3.4.
1.8.8.13. Con: Kneeling and/or bowing before authority is a subservient and/or prostrate action.
1.8.8.13.1. Con: In the context, it's generally understood by most that they are kneeling as a protest. It's an act of defiance, not subservience.
1.8.8.13.2. Con: In this case standing could be seen as being subservient to the establishment that is telling them to stand. By kneeling they are, apologies for the pun, standing up to the authority that tells them to stop trying to be political and do your job.
1.8.8.14. Con: Respect cannot be forced. If people believe that a country which allows police to get away with murder does not deserve their respect, then demanding that they stand does not change that.
1.8.9. Con: Racial equality is subjective. There is no definitive stance on when folks would move from 'kneel' to 'stand', as there is unlikely to ever be a consensus of when racial inequality is 'fixed'.
1.8.9.1. Con: The point of the protest was to highlight police brutality against African Americans, not to set benchmarks for racial equality \(the former only being a component of the latter\).
1.8.10. Con: -> See 1.8.8.13.
1.8.11. Con: It is hypocritical of owners to kneel in response to Trump's comments about the protest but to have also taken no stance on his previous controversial statements.
1.8.11.1. Con: It is hypocritical to say that society is hyper-sensitive and too politically correct \(PC\), while simultaneously opposing the lack of political correctness in kneeling.
1.8.11.2. Con: The only question that matters is, is it okay to kneel during the national anthem. Whether or not you've knelt or protested before doesn't enter into it.
1.8.11.3. Pro: Many team owners [donated heavily to the Trump campaign](http://money.cnn.com/2017/09/25/news/companies/trump-nfl-owners-donations/index.html).
1.8.11.4. Pro: These same team owners did not take any action in response to numerous other offensive comments by Trump, some of which are worse, such as his [comments about Mexicans when announcing his candidacy](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2015/06/16/full-text-donald-trump-announces-a-presidential-bid/?utm_term=.f49be3866281): "They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists."
1.8.11.5. Con: It is understandable that NFL owners would take action in a situation that affects them and over which they have some amount of influence or control.
1.8.11.6. Pro: None of Trump's previous comments were a threat to the profits of NFL owners, so it seems likely that their reaction to his comments on NFL player protests were at least partially motivated by their own profit.
1.8.11.7. Con: Hypocrisy is irrelevant compared to the question of whether they are on the correct side now. Having previously held or felt pressured to display different opinions previously does not invalidate current opinions.
1.8.11.8. Con: Not necessarily. The increase in rhetoric, and timbre that was produced by the President's words, may have been enough to encourage them to take action. Thinking as an economist, \(numbers made-up\) one could see the early potential cost of kneeling as $10 and the value of the statement they envisioned as $5. Now that they have a greater value of the statement made by kneeling at $15, they see it as a worthwhile cause.
1.8.12. Con: If players aren't going to do anything for injustice during the off season, then kneeling during the anthem is just politics.
1.8.12.1. Con: Kneeling is a valid form of protest; requiring any action off season is a case of whataboutism \(an attempt to discredit an opponent's position by charging them with hypocrisy without directly refuting or disproving their argument\).
1.8.12.2. Con: Using the very visible televised games is simply well applied leverage to reach a larger audience.
1.8.12.3. Con: This argument applies a very individual standard to a very broad question. Some people kneel and also do much more to fight injustice and some just kneel. The question isn't whether the argument a person is making by kneeling is valid. The question is, does he have the right to make that argument in a public place without being punished by his employer or the league.
1.8.12.4. Con: Aiming at causing political discussion is an effective tool for eliciting change.
1.8.13. Con: The solution arrived at by the Patriots, as they discussed it, was to stand for the Anthem and join arms for solidarity.
1.9. Con: Playing the national anthem at game openings is a choice made by the stadium and the franchise. The business could also say a prayer or recite a poem. No action should be dictated in response to any of these.
1.9.1. Con: Playing the national anthem isn't just a preference of the league, it is a custom that all professional sports recognize.
1.9.2. Con: The business, stadium, or franchise is at liberty to take "action" that perhaps "should" be done. In other words, the action needn't be dictated by a third party. Furthermore, nobody is seems to be suggesting that other parties ought to intervene.
1.9.3. Con: The NFL could make it a condition of employment to stand at attention when the host country's national anthem is played and flag is displayed. This is true in U.S.A., Canada, Mexico, U.K., etc.
1.9.4. Pro: Many players come from all over the world. They're brought to the US to improve the teams people love. And when they are asked to pay hommage to your national anthem, they do so. Wheter they are standing or kneeling shouldn't be an issue, because they're already paying respect to a national anthem that's not their own.
1.10. Con: America grants the individual the freedom to stand, kneel or avoid action during an anthem.
1.10.1. Con: It is normal, common, and legal for employers to discipline and/or terminate their employees for causing problems with their public relations. Nothing about the national anthem or America's freedoms make this situation any different.
1.10.1.1. Con: Whether this is true or not, the PR impact of kneeling is unclear.
1.10.1.2. Con: If this is true, then the NFL's position as a private enterprise means that their choice to not fire people should be respected.
1.10.2. Pro: Players, fans, and maybe owners can all [kneel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IKeW9a-ygyo&t=2s) right before the Anthem starts, and as it starts we all stand, then when the anthem is over, we all kneel together.
1.10.2.1. Con: The premise assumes "all" \(or most?\) even agree with the motivation \(i.e. white oppression of blacks today\) behind kneeling. That is unlikely to be the case, since similar and related protests \(e.g. BLM\) are clearly based in an extreme left fringe.
1.10.2.2. Con: This encroaches on the right of the individual to protest. If it's demanded that all protest together, it's no longer a protest. While the sentiment may be there, the application is incorrect.
1.10.3. Pro: Banning protest in the name of patriotism is truly ironic.
1.10.4. Pro: The freedom to stand or kneel based upon an individual allegiance is paramount. The allegiance of one's own heart should never be coerced. However, the way that others react to this choice is also a question of personal freedom. You may stand or kneel, and I may watch or shun.
1.10.5. Pro: In a country where freedom is praised and defended, pacific protest should NOT be criticized, freedom of expression should be defended even when you don't agree with whatever is expressed
1.10.6. Con: America doesn't prohibit private contracts between consenting individuals that would require parties to that contract to stand for an anthem.
1.10.7. Pro: One's personal belief, no matter its sacredness, can in no way be forced on or even suggested to another. My rights end where another's rights begin. Compulsory obeisance or allegiance should not be a topic of worthy discussion.
1.10.8. Con: Although not punishable, it is against the law to kneel.[law.cornell.edu](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/36/301)
1.10.9. Pro: -> See 1.3.11.1.3.2.
1.10.10. Con: -> See 1.3.5.4.1.
1.10.11. Pro: Kneeling is free speech.
1.10.11.1. Con: This is not protected speech, it's political activity at an employer in the private sector. The Union and a dozen players have exposed an incoherent ownership model. Some owners are firing, suspending players and others are tolerating it.
1.10.11.2. Pro: -> See 1.3.11.1.3.
1.10.11.3. Pro: -> See 1.6.10.3.1.
1.10.11.4. Pro: -> See 1.3.5.12.4.
1.10.11.5. Pro: -> See 1.3.5.4.1.3.
1.10.11.6. Pro: Kneeling in the face of a president trying to force someone not to kneel is a celebration of freedom. Therefore it does not disrespect America.
1.10.11.6.1. Con: -> See 1.3.5.4.1.
1.10.11.6.2. Pro: If the reason given to stand is to support the executive branch, the executive branch should in turn support this community. They aren't, so players should protest.
1.10.11.7. Pro: -> See 1.3.4.5.
1.10.11.8. Con: The only explicit rights employees have to free speech while on the clock are related to [wages, hours, and working conditions.](http://money.cnn.com/2017/08/08/technology/google-workplace-free-speech/index.html) All other types of speech are not protected and up to the employer to decide whether allowed or not.
1.10.11.9. Pro: Kneeling during the Anthem is a choice that should be made by individuals as an expression of their first amendment rights.
1.10.11.9.1. Pro: The First Amendment offers protection for people to peacefully assemble and speak their beliefs. Although NFL players work for private corporations, they play in taxpayer funded stadiums. Therefore their right to kneel is protected as peaceful assembly and free speech. If the NFL owned the stadiums, then the players would be compelled to adhere to their corporations policies.
1.10.12. Pro: There are many religions in the US that preclude their members from engaging in the pledge or anthem, which is why they cannot be forced in schools. Not supporting the ability of any American to also abstain based on conscience puts religious liberty at risk.
1.10.12.1. Pro: Jehovah Witnesses believe saluting the flag or reciting the pledge of allegiance is a form of [worship](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jehovah%27s_Witnesses_and_governments#cite_note-1). In the U.S., their right to not participate was upheld in 1943 by [West Virginia Board of Education v. Barnett](https://www.oyez.org/cases/1940-1955/319us624).
1.10.12.2. Con: Schooling the United States is compulsory, which is why the State cannot require or limit most types of speech in the classroom. Playing national-level football is decidedly not compulsory, and is a profession, and as such not subject to most free speech limitations.
1.10.12.2.1. Con: Free speech is not contingent on whether or not the activity is compulsory. It is only contingent on whether or not physical or serious psychological harm is done. Ie: Yelling fire in a theatre when there is no peril or engaging in speech that meets the definition of bullying or harassment.
1.10.12.2.2. Con: -> See 1.3.11.1.3.2.2.1.
1.10.12.2.3. Con: Standing for the National Anthem is not an integral part of playing national-level football, and therefore should not be required of players.
1.11. Con: Each team should be allowed to decide if and how they might enforce the national league's stand-up policy. Players can add that factor into their decision when deciding what team to join.
1.11.1. Con: Everyone should freely decide for himself. If they want to kneel, they will. The teams shouldn't focus on politics.
1.11.2. Con: The NFL values homogeneity with its owners and teams. Allowing individual teams this autonomy could be a Pandora's box in other decisions normally voted on at owners' meetings.
1.11.3. Con: Though a player can decide whether to join a team or not, a player is not simply able to join any team that they wish. This certainly complicates the player's ability to decide if a team's policy matches their preference when it comes to protests.
1.12. Pro: Political protests should not happen at the workplace.
1.12.1. Pro: According to [Jonathan Turely](http://thehill.com/opinion/civil-rights/389495-nfl-has-every-right-under-law-to-push-new-national-anthem-policy), the NFL, as an employer, has the legal right to deny employees  political protests while at work. They can do so if they determine that the protests would threaten the business. The players do not have a right to protest while at work.
1.12.1.1. Con: The NFL has a collective bargaining agreement that governs its relations with the players. It has to abide by the agreement so some options available to some businesses are not an option for the NFL.
1.12.1.2. Con: Since the players are not officially 'at work' until the game officially starts, the players should have the right to kneel, sit, talk, run, drink water or whatever they choose to do BEFORE the game \(they are being paid for\) actually starts.
1.12.1.3. Con: While at-will employers can set the terms of the employment of at-will employees, NFL players are *not* at-will employees. Employment terms between the NFL and Player's Union are collectively bargained; standing for the anthem is not required \([snopes.com](https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/must-nfl-players-stand/)\). Changes to those terms are subject to appeal by the union which is exactly what happened \([npr.org](https://www.npr.org/2018/07/10/627717067/nfl-players-union-files-grievance-over-leagues-new-national-anthem-policy)\) when the league tried to change the rules. As a result, the changes are currently on hold, so this form of protest is *not* currently forbidden.
1.12.1.4. Pro: Protests should not be made in the place of work. One goes to exchange services for money, not personal things. Usually, employers like for employees to leave their personal baggage at home.
1.12.2. Pro: -> See 1.5.7.1.
1.12.3. Pro: The NFL is a business and any action besides standing subjects the business to a political morass. Discipline and/or termination of employees that threaten the public relations of a company is normal, and NFL players are no different.
1.12.3.1. Con: Forcing players to stand would also subject the business to a political morass and threaten the public relations of the company.
1.12.3.2. Con: Discipline and/or termination of employees may be illegal if it is considered discriminatory in nature. \([www.alllaw.com](http://www.alllaw.com/articles/employment/article21.asp)\) Since standing or kneeling is a form of speech, which does not attack or prevent others from their own speech...it is likely discriminatory to discipline them for such acts regardless of the PR implications therein.
1.12.3.3. Pro: You are not an individual as an NFL player. You’re the face of a franchise. Your actions can negatively or positively impact your company and the general livelihood of thousands of other people.
1.12.4. Pro: Freedom of speech is fundamental: NFL Players are given a unique platform that is not available to "average" Americans to express their opinions. But ultimately the field is their workplace. If an employee decides not to wear a uniform to make a statement, he or she would be fired. The employer sets the rules; it is up to the employee to accept them or not.
1.12.4.1. Con: Standing, or sitting, or kneeling during the anthem is outside the description of their contract. This is markedly different than if they decided to not wear their jersey, or replace it with another. The employer sets the rules at the time of negotiation. They are not free to change it on an ad-hoc basis unless the contract stipulates the conditions in which it can be changed on an ad-hoc basis.
1.12.4.2. Con: This is less about adhering to your employment contract, and more of like if your employer was Muslim \(or any other religion\) and demanded that you engage in prayer. It would not be part of the job that you were hired to do.
1.12.5. Pro: Apply the standard to any workplace. Would you be tolerant of your employee making such a gesture while you were paying him to do a job, especially when your consumers were there to spend their money on your product \(not be subjected to your employees political opinions\)? Take their celebrity and popularity out of the equation; they are on duty and using their employer's platform to propagate their political message.
1.12.5.1. Con: It's necessary for the employer to factor in the public's response to their own positive or negative response to the employee's action. So while the employer may not approve of the message or the choice to voice it while on-duty, they may determine that reprimanding the employee will have a greater negative impact than supporting the employee.
1.12.6. Con: Military advertisements should never happen at the workplace, nor should obligatory adherence to quasi-religious ceremonies directed at said advertisements. And yes, the playing of the National Anthem is an advertisement that is paid for by the military for the sole purpose of recruitment.
1.12.6.1. Pro: Documented in painstaking detail [by report by two senators](https://www.mccain.senate.gov/public/_cache/files/12de6dcb-d8d8-4a58-8795-562297f948c1/tackling-paid-patriotism-oversight-report.pdf) re: overspending. "In all, the military services reported $53 million in spending on marketing and advertising contracts with sports teams between 2012 and 2015." Also covered many other places, exemplified by articles like [this](https://www.cnn.com/2017/09/25/us/nfl-national-anthem-trump-kaepernick-history-trnd/index.html).
1.12.6.2. Con: A military advertisement is not political or partisan. US forces protect every US citizen and their right of freedom. The National Anthem is to honor the veteran, regardless of their political beliefs. Recruitment for the military is a civil service, not political either.
1.12.6.3. Con: Advertising recruitment in the military attracts new recruits, future soldiers who protect every citizen of the United States both in our borders and threats abroad. While there should always be scrutiny on the budget amount, the application of driving awareness for recruitment is a necessary component of any entity that wants to sustain and survive.
1.12.7. Con: Standing for the Anthem is a political act in itself. If political protests should not happen in the work place then demanding one to stand should not be allowed.
1.12.7.1. Con: We stand to focus on what unites us. That is the one moment we set all our differences aside. It is not about an administration, political affiliation, or the President; it is about the unity of a people in spite of our political or social ideas.
1.12.8. Pro: Players should conform to their business' policy during working hours. They have ample opportunity to protest outside of their workplace.
1.12.8.1. Pro: Forced to stand suggest there is an employer work rule/policy requiring players to stand. As employees, players must follow the work rule/policy. Any violation of the rule is subject to consequences established in the work rule/policy. Aggrieved players have a right to complain via their Players' Association.
1.12.9. Con: There is something fundamentally different about a work place in which literally millions of people watch you do your work--and indeed, the workplace relies upon those millions of viewers to survive. It becomes less a matter of a work place and more a matter of a public forum, where expressions of conscience and censorship take on public significance.
1.12.10. Con: Political Protest have historically taken place at workplaces on many occasions. Saying they shouldn't is kind of like saying political protests shouldn't take place.
1.12.10.1. Pro: Both the Women's movement and black rights movement that took place historically had forms of protest that took place at work, Ex. Women not going to work or not doing their job at work to emphasise pay inequality or voting rights.
1.12.10.2. Pro: Political protests have historically taken place at work because often a disruption in the status quo or economic systems are needed for people to pay attention and thus instigate change.
1.12.10.2.1. Con: The workplace protests by the woman's movement and by blacks addressed the disparity they endured AT the workplace. Descrimination, wage inequality, and opportunity.
1.12.10.3. Con: Such so called political protest at work are often related to the work pay relationship between the employer and employee. It is actually a dispute rather than a protest. The loss inflicted on the employer are a results of different views between employer and the employee. This is not the case here.
1.12.11. Con: Many successful protests, such as the [Bread and Roses strike](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1912_Lawrence_textile_strike), and [General Motors strike](http://listverse.com/2011/11/17/top-10-famous-strikes-in-recent-history/) have been at work.
1.12.11.1. Con: Striking workers is not like players taking a knee because the "beef" for striking workers is between the workers and the business where the strike is happening \(sometimes in solidarity with some other set of employer/workers group\). With NFL and the teams, none are alleging that the teams or NFL are wronging the players or anyone they support. They are using the prominence of the game as a pulpit or megaphone to amplify their point.
1.12.11.2. Con: Unlike these strikes, the NFL protests are a collective bargaining issue, the success of which depends on the complaint process. As such, the NFL is justified in not condoning political speech in the workplace.
1.12.12. Con: The protests seem to be more social than political. Protesters are not advocating attention to or change of politics or law, but rather the personal-level interactions between police and civilians. Being a social protest might alter its perception by the NFL, audiences and counter-protesters.
1.12.12.1. Con: Whether it's social or political, it has the possibility to offend the customers, in this case, the NFL audience. The employer will suffer totally unrelated loss because of the employee's action, therefore, the employer has the right to limit such action, and NFL does have such policy. It is unfair to the employer to suffer these loss because the employee has the social influence and power to inflict that harm.
1.12.13. Pro: Failing to stand is harmful to their company's brand and undermines the justification for the pay they receive.
1.12.13.1. Con: The agreements are settled via contract. As such: if a rule would be changed, it would need to be adjusted in such a manner, where both parties are able to agree or disagree. The teams would need to make such a rule violation and enforce penalties which are, even currently, at their discretion. Other action would be "in breach of contract".
1.12.14. Con: Labeling a protest as "political" is often done to disenfranchise the protestor\(s\)' cause and harden one's own resolve.
1.12.15. Con: If workplace protests are verboten, then spectators raising a fist should be acceptable, since they are customers, not employees.
1.12.16. Con: It is not during the actual play time of the game. And the players are respectfully utilizing their limited platform to the benefit of less fortunates.
1.13. Pro: -> See 1.6.10.3.
1.14. Con: Freedom is more important than trying to prevent offending people. This means people can believe players should stand without believing they should be forced to stand.
1.14.1. Con: Actions during National Anthem are a personal choice, not enforceable. One is free to disrespect, or honor, and it just reflects character to others. However, during the National Anthem, TV cameras should only show the flag or the performer\(s\) of the Anthem, and remove the politics from the broadcast. Players and celebrities should not be afforded a larger and free platform provided by their profession and not afforded to the general public.
1.14.1.1. Con: [Citizens United v. FEC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Citizens_United_v._FEC) equated money with speech. As a result the wealthy have a larger platform than the general public by virtue of their wealth. Stifling an athlete's speech while allowing the wealthy to leverage his platform does not respect our right to speak freely, nor does it respect the listener's right to choose not to listen.
1.14.1.2. Con: What to broadcast and not broadcast is at the sole discretion of the broadcast network, aside from any regulatory restrictions \(e.g. FCC\).
1.14.2. Con: -> See 1.4.1.1.
1.15. Con: Forcing NFL players to stand is not okay in the context of American and Football values.
1.15.1. Pro: The players may feel that the system of values associated with the national anthem are not being represented by groups in society. They could be drawing attention to this rather than disrespecting or disregarding the values themselves.
1.15.1.1. Con: It's true that that was the intention, but under the circumstances, visuals are key. While the intention was not to disrespect the flag or the military, it was clearly seen by many as just that. By persisting in light of that information, it ultimately has become a disrespect to the serviceman and to the flag.
1.15.1.1.1. Con: -> See 1.3.4.2.
1.15.1.1.2. Con: The protest continues because black people are still being targeted, abused, harassed, and killed by law enforcement. Disrespect is the interpretation people who want to see black oppression continue, use to deflect attention from the real reason for the kneel as a protest.
1.15.2. Con: The American flag represents American values. These values include equal opportunity and treatment regardless of race or gender. If players stand for the flag, they are pushing these ideals forward.
1.15.2.1. Con: -> See 1.1.8.
1.15.2.2. Con: 'Regardless of race or gender' is a relatively new addition to equality in America and the facts demonstrate that we have not done enough to fulfill this promise.
1.15.2.3. Con: This is precisely why, when the flag's ideals are not espoused in the country, it's good and healthy to highlight that incongruence.
1.15.2.4. Con: America was founded on the principle of white male enfranchisement and black enslavement. Historically,  American values have not reflected equal opportunity and treatment.
1.15.2.5. Con: America has a long history of protest against injustice, built on the 1st Amendment right to free speech and assembly. There is no single correct way to advocate for justice, and well-meaning people may disagree on their respective approaches.
1.15.2.6. Con: If the players stay silent, they are ignoring injustice.
1.15.2.6.1. Con: -> See 1.6.10.3.8.
1.15.2.6.2. Con: -> See 1.6.10.3.6.1.1.
1.15.2.6.3. Con: -> See 1.6.10.3.9.
1.15.2.6.4. Pro: -> See 1.6.10.3.6.
1.15.3. Con: American values include the liberty of a business to discipline or dismiss employees who conduct themselves in any way the business dislikes. This is particularly true in the NFL, where the contracts include agreements about conduct and public image.
1.15.4. Pro: The concept of coerced \(forced\) behavior, specifically nationalistic patriotism, is itself antithetical to the premise of a free and democratic society.
1.15.4.1. Pro: Patriotism is by definition voluntary; it is an organic emotion that a person either feels or does not.
1.15.4.2. Pro: Authoritarian nationalism, that is, being required/forced by authorities to outwardly exhibit devotion to one's homeland, is a characteristic of fascism.
1.15.4.3. Pro: Three places where everyone stands for the anthem: North Korea, China, and Nazi Germany.
1.15.4.4. Pro: The problem isn't patriotism. It's rather the concept of forcing someone to be one - and they're not being unpatriotic to begin with. Silent protesting has been around for a long time.
1.15.5. Pro: It is the most American thing of all to stand up against a government that you believe is oppressive or mistreating its citizens. That is what this country was founded on. If an athlete wants to use the notoriety gained by playing a game to shed light on the plight of fellow citizens being mistreated by their government, that is noble and worthy of our careful consideration. Those who try to twist these actions into being anti-American certainly don't understand what America is.
1.15.6. Pro: If your society's fundamental values are democratic engagement and free speech, then during the national anthem is an ideal time to exercise both and draw attention to injustice.
1.16. Con: Historically speaking, attempts to dissuade people from participation actually encouraged additional people to join the movement. Similar sympathies could increase the number of participants in an NFL protest.
1.16.1. Pro: The [sit-in movement](https://www.britannica.com/topic/sit-in-movement), begun in Greensboro, NC, started with just four people, but the attention paid to their protest eventually led to 70,000 black and white Americans participating.
1.17. Pro: The NFL can't solve the problems that the players are protesting against, so the players should stand, rather than hurt their employer's business.
1.17.1. Con: The NFL is a multi million dollar corporation. With that amount of capital, much could be done to lobby congress to address the issues that the players are protesting against. Whether the NFL or it's board/shareholders WILL do such a thing is a different issue.
1.17.2. Con: Even if the NFL cannot solve the problems that the players are protesting against, the 16.5 million people who watch the NFL game _can_ solve the problems that the protestors are protesting about.
1.18. Con: When we take away the option for people to protest peacefully, we inevitably push them to more violent forms of protest. As [JFK said](http://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/ws/index.php?pid=9100&st=&st1=), "Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable."
1.18.1. Con: The players should incite violence during the National Anthem.
1.18.1.1. Pro: With each occurrence of police brutality, the rights and lives of African Americans are in increasing danger. They have to treat it as a threat to their lives, because ultimately it is.
1.18.1.1.1. Con: Anyone who commits violence against African Americans is subject to punishment under the law. People accused of crimes are supposed to have the right to a fair trial by an impartial hurt. Bypassing that system in favor of vigilante justice is wrong, even if the outcomes don't always seem to serve justice the way we define it.
1.18.1.1.1.1. Con: [Police are not](https://www.cnn.com/2017/05/18/us/police-involved-shooting-cases/index.html) subject to punishment, or even trial, for the violence they commit against African Americans the vast majority of the time.
1.18.1.1.2. Con: This is analogous to saying "it's only a matter of time before somebody punches me so I'm going to go out on the street now and punch a random person and that way I'll get even." It makes no sense.
1.18.1.2. Pro: All lives matter equally, and it has been demonstrated that black lives don't matter, therefore, neither does anyone else's. As such, there is no cost to the players using violence to achieve their goals.
1.18.1.2.1. Pro: The police are treating black Americans as if they are [lesser than other races](https://ips-dc.org/african-americans-still-treated-second-class-citizens-law/). If that's all society is willing to acknowledge them as, there is no benefit in acting better than that standard.
1.18.1.2.1.1. Con: It remains unproven that the police treat black people "lesser than other races".
1.18.1.2.1.1.1. Con: Statistics bear this out; police kill proportionally more black people. [cdn.vox-cdn.com](https://cdn.vox-cdn.com/thumbor/dtqEE-Zd9EZj_8YXf1L3zFXA4-c=/1200x0/filters:no_upscale\(\)/cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/6877233/police%20killings%20by%20race.png)
1.18.1.2.1.2. Con: This is a flawed strategy leaving it up to others to define who you are. You should act with integrity no matter how others treat you. This strategy gives one inner strength to disregard how others view them and act in an ethical, humanistic way. If people were to only be nice to those who are nice to them, our society would fall apart as arguments broke out over trivial matters. This happens less when we counter ignorance with composure.
1.18.1.2.1.2.1. Con: Never engaging any form of retaliation regardless of what the world puts before you turns out to be a pretty bad [strategy](http://ncase.me/trust/).
1.18.1.2.1.2.1.1. Pro: That person who tried to rape someone 3 times already isn't going to stop trying to rape just because they are told no, no matter how nice one is to them.
1.18.1.2.1.2.1.2. Pro: Abusive partners in relationships don't stop being abusive if you just do what they want.
1.18.1.2.1.3. Con: Acting "lesser" by committing violence validates the very false claim allegedly driving police behavior.
1.18.1.2.1.3.1. Con: Doing nothing does not dismantle the claim. Police didn't need an excuse to start doing this, and they don't need one to keep doing it either.
1.18.1.2.2. Con: There does not appear to be definitive proof that black lives do not matter. Currently there is a robust and active [legal system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_Rights_Act_of_1964) to ensure equal rights to black citizens of the US. Without objective and definitive proof that black lives don't matter, the pretense for the argument \(thus the argument for violence\) is false.
1.18.1.2.3. Con: Using violence \(or any other inherent wrong\) in pursuit of a goal gives those against that goal an excuse to delegitimize the pursuit.
1.18.1.2.3.1. Con: Evidently, kneeling gives those against that goal an excuse to delegitimize the pursuit. Everything is too extreme, so might as well go for broke.
1.18.1.2.4. Con: Violence against other humans is always wrong, except in immediate self-defense.
1.18.1.2.4.1. Pro: The use of violence only further validates the use of violence in retaliation, perpetuating an ever escalating cycle of violence that can only ever end in more negative outcomes than almost any peaceful resolution.
1.18.1.2.4.1.1. Con: The cycle of inaction being retaliated against with more violence and oppression is just as vicious.
1.18.1.2.4.1.2. Con: A peaceful resolution is not a necessary condition. The dead can't retaliate.
1.18.1.2.4.1.3. Pro: -> See 1.18.1.2.1.3.
1.18.1.2.4.2. Con: Cops do this all the time to black people, and there is seldom any justice. This would be, indirectly, self-defense. When you have a group of people persecuting another race, there may be a justified blow-back that results in explosive violence. Any damage done during the violence would be fractional compared to the amount of damage done towards black people and their community. At some point, enough is enough.
1.18.1.2.4.3. Con: Always selecting peace over violence has historically been a mistake, such as the [Appeasement Politics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Appeasement) toward Hitler's Germany illustrates.
1.18.1.2.4.4. Pro: Violence comes with costs for the community, as security forces need to be paid.
1.18.1.2.4.5. Con: The [responsibility to protect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Responsibility_to_protect) is a morally right reason to engage in warfare.
1.18.1.2.4.6. Con: Political violence could be used to prevent a state where self-defense would be impossible or difficult, as it currently is for persons who are targeted by police.
1.18.1.2.5. Con: The cost is the loss of their political credibility, careers, and platforms for protesting.
1.18.1.2.6. Con: Additionally, violence would galvanize white supremacist groups like neo nazis and the KKK. It also estranges would be allies and supporters of black rights supporters.
1.18.1.2.6.1. Con: Doing nothing about the neo nazis and KKK also galvanizes them. When nothing is done about them, they feel emboldened and become more violent.
1.18.1.3. Pro: Sometimes it takes more than talk to solve a problem. Considering the pace at which we are going, it might never be truly equal. If something explosive were to happen, something that even the white people suffered from, by not being able to watch their football, then maybe a serious discussion about the problem might happen. Right now it has become about whether to kneel or not, and not what they are kneeling for. The conversation needs to change, now, by doing something huge.
1.18.1.4. Con: -> See 1.18.1.2.4.
1.18.1.5. Con: If people of a certain race incite violence against another race, those people are no better than the race that started the whole thing.
1.18.1.5.1. Con: It's is not like football players are all black, and it's not only black people that have a problem with the injustice towards black people. There are white people willing to stand by black football players, and together, fight for their rights.
1.18.1.5.2. Con: According to this logic, the only appropriate thing to do when one is being attacked is to let it happen, to let one's self be killed, because to raise a hand to their attacker would make them just as bad as them. Failing to let one's self be killed is not immoral.
1.18.1.5.2.1. Con: This goes back to a debate regarding \(in physical terms\) where self defense becomes offense. It is one thing to tell a group to defend their right. It is another thing to expand that "right" into the allowance to hurt a group of people.
1.18.1.5.2.1.1. Pro: Someone stealing a pencil does not justify coming back and destroying all of their pencils, note books, and calculators.
1.18.1.6. Con: The extent of violence players can inflict is limited. Police and private security staff is present at any game and would suppress violence immediately.
1.18.1.6.1. Con: Security at a football game is not large enough or equipped to handle a full-scale riot.
1.18.1.6.2. Con: This claim conflates "inciting violence" with "being violent". Perhaps security staff may not intervene to stop a player from asking the crowd to be violent. And security staff is certainly inadequate if the crowd does become violent.
1.18.1.7. Con: Historically, peaceful protests are most effective.
1.18.1.7.1. Pro: [Peaceful protests work.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2013/11/05/peaceful-protest-is-much-more-effective-than-violence-in-toppling-dictators/?utm_term=.62c266ac89e4)
1.18.1.7.2. Pro: The vast majority of progress on race in America was made by leaders like Martin Luther King Jr., who fought for justice using a message of humility, kindness, and reconciliation.
1.18.1.7.2.1. Con: [Martin Luther King Jr](https://www.npr.org/2018/01/08/575942968/american-democracy-productive-conflict-or-a-dumpster-fire). went into places of extreme prejudice and basically challenged people to act against him and those with him. It is not a traditional way to incite violence, but it was, in fact, inciting violence.
1.18.1.7.3. Pro: Historically, advocating civic-wide violence is counterproductive. Calls for such violence led to the election of Richard Nixon on a so-called "law and order" platform \([Wasow, p. 1](http://www.omarwasow.com/Protests_on_Voting.pdf)\).
1.18.1.7.4. Con: The two most profound leaders of pacifist social movements, Ghandi and Martin Luther King Jr., were murdered as a direct result of their pacifist activism. While members of their ideological rivals like Malcolm X and the Black Panther Party were murdered as well, peaceful protests are not exactly the most effective.
1.18.1.7.4.1. Con: Ghandi achieved a liberated India.
1.18.1.7.4.2. Pro: The Irish fought a thirty year guerrilla war to preserve the autonomy of their free state.
1.18.1.7.4.2.1. Con: The Irish were unsucessful to preserve a common state since it is still divided.
1.18.1.7.4.3. Pro: The Sudanese fought a ten year genocidal conflict to become the youngest country on the planet.
1.18.1.7.4.3.1. Con: The Sudanese way of separation continues to lead to death and war within South Sudan.
1.18.1.7.5. Pro: Martin Luther King Jr. and Gandhi achieved political success through non-violence.
1.18.1.7.5.1. Con: -> See 1.18.1.7.4.
1.18.1.7.5.2. Con: -> See 1.18.1.7.2.1.
1.18.1.8. Con: A violent outbreak would remove a lot of public support for their cause, ultimately being counterproductive.
1.18.1.9. Con: Violence during the Anthem would indicate attacking the fans. If the real target of the violence was the owners, then DURING the Anthem would be counter-productive.
1.18.2. Pro: The suppression of peaceful protest is inextricably oppression, which is anti-American.
1.18.3. Con: Most of these players are not interested in action except when they are on the clock. Violence would not be the next step if they can't get paid to protest.
1.18.3.1. Con: A large number of players are involved in donating time and money to the impoverished communities they came from. Most of them are willing to be anonymous with specific charities, but on national issue they want to have their voice amplified as loud as possible.
1.19. Pro: The flag and the National Anthem are symbols of the Nation. The offences being protested are not. They are local issues not under the control of the Federal Government. Protest at the police office or city hall in the community that an incident happened.
1.19.1. Con: The offences being protested are in large part the result of systemic racism. The federal government and its national institutions exert tremendous influence on systemic factors, so protests on the national stage are appropriate.
1.19.2. Con: They are protesting targeted violence and killings- it's crime of epidemic proportions. They should be allowed to do so.
1.19.3. Con: [Protests are also occurring in the city hall](http://gothamist.com/2016/08/01/blm_city_hall_occupation.php). Protests aren't either/or - where protests can only occur at city hall, or only during the National Anthem. Protests can, and do, occur at different locations, with slightly different constituents, until positive change occurs.
1.19.4. Con: Police brutality is a nation-wide epidemic that the Federal Government has an ability to address. Protests at every level should be seen as not only appropriate, but justified.
1.19.5. Pro: Standing during the National Anthem was originally meant to protest police brutality. However, the National Anthem is not about the police. If anything it is about the entire country, and even the service men and women. Therefore, it is not relevant to the cause it is trying to protest. Therefore, NFL players should stand for their country rather than kneel against just the police.
1.20. Con: Forcing someone to stand would be an actively oppressive gesture by a fearful yet powerful majority to stifle those who might upset the status quo.
1.20.1. Pro: Forcing players to stand will just support their point that they're oppressed, victimized and unfree.
1.21. Pro: People watch football to escape from politics. Viewers want to watch a game, not a protest.
1.21.1. Con: Politics are inherently imbued in every aspect of life. What business practices your boss decides to invoke; what bathrooms you are allowed to use in public; every aspect of your life is governed by one law or another. To live is to participate in the political process. When you watch the football game, you support the NFL, [a powerful organization with its own political impact](http://www.cracked.com/article_21720_5-reasons-nfls-way-more-evil-than-you-thought-possible.html). Most actions you take for granted have a political consequence. Hence NFL players' kneeling should be allowed.