Discussion Title: Okonkwo, from the book "Things Fall Apart," was not a tragic hero by Aristotle's definition.

1. Okonkwo, from the book "Things Fall Apart" was not a tragic hero by Aristotle's definition.
1.1. Con: Okonkwo acted consistently throughout the book.
1.1.1. Con: Okonkwo committed suicide at the end of the book. This shows that Okonkwo changed significantly over the course of the book.
1.1.1.1. Con: Other heroes who commit suicide, like [Romeo](https://www.enotes.com/homework-help/how-romeo-tragic-hero-from-shakespeares-romeo-426512), have typically been regarded as tragic heroes by Aristotlean standards.
1.1.2. Pro: Okonkwo remained consistent in his respect for the rules of the clan.
1.1.2.1. Con: Okonkwo broke the rules of The Week of Peace. “He walked back to his obi to await Ojiugo’s return. And when she returned he beat her very heavily” \(29\).
1.1.2.1.1. Con: Okonkwo repented afterword, and he payed the fine for his error immediately.
1.1.3. Con: While Okonkwo was banished from his motherland, he was so distraught his Uncle asked him, “If you allow sorrow to weigh you down and kill you, they will all die in exile” \(134\). Okonkwo let his hopelessness show through, and this would not have happend at the beginning of the book.
1.2. Con: Okonkwo was a lifelike character.
1.2.1. Pro: His motivations and past were explained in detail.
1.3. Pro: Throughout the book, Okonkwo did not act with good morals. He repeatedly beat his wives, he killed his adopted child, he almost killed one of his wives and his firstborn son, Nwoye.
1.3.1. Pro: According to Aristotle, acting with good morals is the most important trait for a tragic hero to have, and Okonkwo does not posses it.
1.3.2. Con: Okonkwo acted appropriately in the context of his culture. Everything he did, including beating his wives, was the societal norm.
1.3.2.1. Pro: Western morality is contingent and culturally grounded, meaning it does not have the universal authority to objectively determine what is and isn't moral in the world.
1.3.2.2. Con: Okonkwo ignored The Week of Peace, an important Ibo tradition, when he beat his wife.
1.3.2.2.1. Con: This was simply a mistake, which brought him consequences - another Artistotlean trait of a hero.
1.3.3. Con: Morals are highly subjective and dependent on context - in Okonkwo's world, he was not acting immorally.
1.4. Pro: Okonkwo's downfall was a result of poor luck. His gun exploded, and a shard of metal from it killed a 16-year-old boy. This led to his exile for 7 years.
1.4.1. Con: Okonkwo's downfall occurred when he killed the missionaries' messenger. This was a result of his own fatal flaw: pride.
1.4.2. Pro: A chain of disastrous events began when Okonkwo accidentally killed Ezeudu’s sixteen-year-old son during the funeral.
1.4.2.1. Pro: Okonkwo’s titles were taken from him. Titles were a very important part of the Ibo culture because they represented status.
1.4.2.2. Pro: His obi \(house\) was burned to the ground.
1.4.2.3. Pro: He was forced from Umuofia to his motherland for 7 years. 7 years is a long time to lose, so when he returned, he lost position in the tribe.
1.4.2.4. Pro: His son joined the missionaries along with many clansmen that had left to join the missionary. This was devastating for Okonkwo to lose his son, and he thought of his clansmen like brothers.