Discussion Title: People who do immoral things aren't immoral

1. People who do immoral things aren't immoral
1.1. Pro: The perception of someone as continually and irreversibly immoral precludes the possibility of their change past a certain point life.
1.2. Pro: Once one does an immoral thing their continuing existence does not guarantee more immoral acts.
1.2.1. Pro: Morality is subjective. Thus, if specific actions could be labeled "immoral", individuals \(or objects\) cannot be labeled "immoral" because it will be very difficult to measure when a person \(or an object\) becomes "immoral".
1.3. Con: If you commit a crime, you''re a criminal. If you commit an immoral act, you are, by definition, an immoral person.
1.4. Pro: Believing that people are immoral leads to tons of anger, shame, violence, and suicide
1.4.1. Pro: Populations that are deemed immoral commit suicide at a higher rate than other non-stigmatized populations.
1.4.2. Con: This is the appealing to consequences of belief fallacy. The outcome of a particular belief neither supports or negates the belief itself.
1.4.2.1. Con: The outcome of a particular belief, e.g the proven existence of a deity,  would support the belief itself, e.g the belief in said deity
1.5. Con: People who do bad things ought to be locked up in jail
1.5.1. Con: Not all bad things deserve punishment by imprisonment
1.5.2. Con: There is no reliable way to connect imprisonment with the permanent status of immorality. Correctional facilities are designed in some part to rehabilitate prisoners, rather than merely isolate them.
1.6. Con: Criminals are likely to act again
1.7. Con: People are able to control themselves. People who are unable to stop themselves from doing bad things must be immoral.
1.7.1. Con: People who are unable to stop themselves from doing bad things are unable to choose right from wrong, so they can't be immoral.
1.7.2. Pro: A key feature of an immoral act is the will to commit such an act.
1.7.3. Con: People do bad things out of ignorance
1.7.3.1. Con: Ignorance is not a valid excuse when making moral decisions
1.7.4. Con: People do bad things out of difficulty in doing good things