Discussion Title: People should adopt rather than have children of their own.

1. People should prioritize adoption rather than having children of their own.
1.1. Con: Adoption may create a savior complex for those that can afford to adopt.
1.1.1. Con: Adoption has always been an option. If the problem didn't exist before, there is no reason to believe it will exist in the future. The argument does not require a ban on procreation.
1.1.2. Con: This may happen, but it also might not. Perhaps people just want a baby.
1.1.3. Con: If adoption becomes the norm, it will be just normality to adopt.
1.2. Con: People should never be told they cannot have children, it is a private matter.
1.3. Pro: Giving birth to a child is expensive.
1.3.1. Pro: It [costs](http://www.parents.com/pregnancy/considering-baby/financing-family/birth-hospital-costs/) approximately $8802 in medical expenses to give birth in the US.
1.3.2. Con: A lot of things are expensive. If they are worth it to someone, it is their prerogative to spend the money.
1.3.3. Con: Giving birth to a child is a tiny tiny fraction of the cost of raising a child, and shouldn't have bearing on whether a family wants a child.

Adopted and biological children in the long run cost almost the same amount. If an adopted child wishes to go to a more expensive school, or has a taste for finer food, or wants to learn piano, then any saving is quickly insignificant.
1.3.3.1. Con: Adopting an older child allows the families to save money in addition to the cost of giving birth. Older adoption can be an avenue for people who want children but cannot afford early life costs.
1.3.4. Con: The parents of the adoptive children may be required to pay adoption agency fees. Therefore, the savings relating to birth medical expenses may actually be small, if at all.
1.4. Pro: Giving birth is an intense process that can be damaging to the woman's health, psyche, and career.
1.4.1. Pro: Women have to take maternity leave from work.
1.4.2. Pro: Employers may overlook promotion for women if they perceive that the woman will take maternity leave.
1.4.3. Pro: It takes up to two years for a women to recover from the [physical changes](http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/karen-laing/post-baby-body_b_8739254.html) caused by giving birth.
1.4.4. Con: The biological mother of a child who is placed in adoption will experience the same disadvantages.
1.4.5. Con: Giving birth is one of the things females of all species were designed to do. And going through that pain is the choice of the woman, no one is coercing them to do it.
1.5. Pro: Adoption means fewer children are in the foster care system.
1.5.1. Pro: Children in the foster system are rarely placed into good homes.
1.6. Con: Adoption is a difficult process in Europe. If many or all fertile and healthy couples adopt children, there will not be babies left for couples who really cannot have biological children.

Fertile couples should only adopt if a suitable sterile couples cannot adopt the child; while a parent who can't have a child is horrible, a child without parents is still a terrible thing.
1.7. Pro: The human population is already too high.
1.7.1. Con: The planet can support a great deal more people than what already exist \(estimates are around [10 billion](https://www.livescience.com/16493-people-planet-earth-support.html)\). Especially if humankind were to focus on more sustainable materials and power sources, such as nuclear power.
1.7.2. Con: If everyone adopted instead of procreating, after 18 years there would be no more children left in the world, and a generation or two after that the human species would [go extinct](https://www.vice.com/en_uk/article/nnkz5k/what-would-happen-if-young-people-stopped-having-babies).
1.7.3. Con: [Many countries](https://www.edge.org/response-detail/23722), including Japan, Germany, and Russia, have declining populations. Further limiting the population would exacerbate the problems of labour shortage and overburdened pensions that underpopulation already causes.
1.8. Con: Adopted children may have a more difficult upbringing than biological children.
1.8.1. Pro: Adoption families face the risk that the birth family will search for the child.
1.8.2. Pro: Being forced to adopt when you want children of your own would breed resentment for those children.
1.8.3. Pro: The child may face emotional problems as an adopted child.
1.8.3.1. Pro: The adopted child will wonder about a proper sense of belonging and wonder why they were given up for adoption.
1.8.3.2. Pro: Adopted children that want to return to their 'birth' family will feel emotional burden towards their 'adoption' family.
1.8.3.3. Con: The child would face more problems without a family.
1.8.4. Pro: Family bonds are stronger in blood families.
1.8.4.1. Con: There is no difference between the family connections of blood and adoptive families.
1.8.4.2. Pro: Older children may struggle to fit in with their new families.
1.9. Pro: New children drain already scarce resources.
1.9.1. Con: Technology will make scarce resources an obsolete problem.
1.9.1.1. Con: There is no guarantee of this, it is still a very large gamble to bet on someone making a discovery in the future.
1.9.2. Con: This is too sweeping of a claim to apply to first world nations where people will be most likely to adopt.
1.9.3. Con: Prioritising adoption for parents is an indirect policy measure to target population growth. It will not necessarily solve the problem.
1.10. Con: Biological families allow cultural and national diversity to be maintained.