Discussion Title: People should negotiate relationship agreements.

1. People should negotiate relationship agreements.
1.1. Con: Having a formal arrangement undermines all sense of organic interpersonal communication; it is very false.
1.1.1. Pro: Actually it can bolster organic communication by providing a framework and guidelines for partners to discuss concerns without worry of negative repercussions, consequences, or punishment.
1.1.1.1. Con: Having a framework, and having organic conversation, are mutually exclusive.
1.1.1.2. Con: No healthy relationship should have negative repercussions, and certainly shouldn't have punishment; if it does, that is emotional and/or physical abuse. No contract is going to be able to override somebody intent on abusive behaviour.
1.1.2. Pro: People and relationships grow, evolve and change. Setting rules at the beginning without considering changes may be a recipe for disaster.
1.2. Con: Eventual conflict is inevitable in a long-term relationship and setting up rules of conduct limits possible solutions.
1.2.1. Pro: By setting pre-ordained rules, one has to try and speculatively plan for all possibly eventualities; certain situations are inevitably going to be missed \(as none of us are omniscient\), meaning that in some conflicts, the rules may well limit possible solutions.
1.2.1.1. Con: If something is unforeseen, it's unlikely a well-thought out relationship agreement today would have rules that end up covering those future unforeseen events.
1.3. Pro: Relationships are an agreement anyway, even though it may be unspoken.
1.3.1. Con: Negotiating arrangements, and having some formal agreement, is a very different to the tacit agreements one has when entering a relationship.
1.4. Pro: An agreement can help us avoid wasting time and energy on relationships with people who are incompatible.
1.5. Con: This assumes that, in the heat of an argument, either party will be even vaguely interested in following a preordained structure. Life tends not to work like that.
1.5.1. Con: If the parties have set out an agreement in the first place, they may be able to largely avoid heated arguments, while new arguments would likely not be covered by the agreement anyway.
1.6. Pro: An agreement can provide parameters for resolving conflict when it arises.
1.6.1. Con: For that to happen, the agreement should envision every potential reason for conflict that may arise. That is unfeasible.
1.6.1.1. Con: Even if an agreement cannot stop all types of conflict from happening, if it may stop some, it is worth it.
1.7. Pro: Jobs require proof of qualifications, background checks, criminal record checks, drug tests, and a host of other things for something you can be kicked out of. Marriage being a long-term contract should have similar, if not harsher, requirements to ensure everyone understands what they're signing up for
1.7.1. Pro: Relationship agreements are a mature approach to creating lasting, meaningful, successful partnerships.
1.8. Pro: An agreement provides clarity on what is expected of us and what we can expect.
1.8.1. Con: It is doubtful that two people who cannot communicate their expectations naturally will be able to write them down formally.
1.8.1.1. Con: A process of formalization helps to clarify positions and reach consensus.
1.8.1.1.1. Pro: The [codification of international law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customary_international_law#Codification_of_international_customary_law) by the Internal Law Commission help to clarify customary international law through silent consensus on disputed aspects.
1.8.1.1.2. Pro: Both parties need to formulate their positions. This facilitates their exchange.
1.8.2. Pro: Differences in expectations should be resolved at the beginning. Housework can be very divisive; even just defining responsibilities formally would improve relationship outcome. People tend to assume things will work themselves out while they are caught up in romance. The truth is marriage is about being a team, its not just about feelings. There can be flexibility, but people should clearly say what they want and what their deal-breakers are.
1.9. Con: A relationship agreement undermines passion.
1.9.1. Pro: By giving a relationship an informal contract it brings the bipersonal interactions down to a transaction.
1.9.1.1. Pro: One partner can demand that the other partner acts in much the same way as two contractual partners can do.
1.9.2. Pro: Formal agreement turns relationship into a contract devoid of deeper meaning.
1.9.3. Con: If two people are passionate for each other, they should also have the will to figure out how they would like the relationship to be. Their passion should inspire them to figure out their relationship at the outset.
1.9.4. Pro: As sappy as it sounds, love and relationships have defied the understanding of the greatest minds of history. Hawking cheated, Newton was a recluse and likely a virgin. Trying to codify love only works if both parties understand it.
1.10. Con: Relationship agreements are unnecessary.
1.10.1. Pro: People have managed to communicate well with one another for millennia.
1.10.2. Con: Our relationship models are outdated, based on oppression of women, and are failing miserably at present.
1.10.2.1. Con: This is unfounded and incorrect. There are a plethora of very successful relationships in the world.
1.10.3. Pro: Being able to weather difficulties in a relationship is an excellent test of communication skills, honesty, and tenacity; to relegate such things to a formal contract is to undermine these vital elements of a relationship.
1.10.3.1. Con: A relationship agreement could encourage parties to communicate with honesty and tenacity at the outset, so that they can or know whether or not they can weather difficulties as they arise.
1.11. Pro: Relationship agreements can prevent people from accidentally hurting each other.
1.11.1. Con: Indeed, in a lot of cases people do not hurt others on purpose and that is why even having an agreement, hurting someone may still happen as accidental situations cannot always be foreseen.
1.11.2. Con: Commercial interactions are subjected to contracts and agreements and that does not prevent them from parties feeling hurt or harmed. Personal relationships may be no different.