Discussion Title: Podcast guidelines should concern content “intended as” rather than content that “could be construed as” insensitive.

1. Podcast guidelines should concern content “intended as” rather than content that “could be construed as” insensitive.
1.1. Pro: When a rule is so broad that everyone is breaking it, selective enforcement becomes subjective censorship.
1.2. Con: 'construed as' allows for a wider interpretation.
1.3. Con: 'intend' is difficult to show.
1.4. Con: It is easy to be extremely offensive without it being possible to prove that this was your intention.
1.4.1. Con: The guidelines do not require any proof to be furnished when a sanction is carried out.
1.4.2. Pro: Individuals who make offensive content under an 'intended as' rule will simply deny that they intended to offend, making regulation very difficult.
1.4.2.1. Con: The opinion of the content creator is not relevant to the enforcement process. Discretion lies solely with the manager of the podcast network.
1.5. Con: As intent is very hard to determine, this would lead to certain topic areas becoming completely forbidden.
1.6. Pro: The guideline would be far easier to interpret.
1.6.1. Con: The guideline would be easier to interpret but its application could be limited by the fact that intent is difficult to prove. In lawsuits regarding the removal of content on the grounds of offensive intent, for example, the creators of the content might easily deny that they intended to cause offence.
1.6.1.1. Con: Courts have lots of precedents for how to establish intent with sufficient accuracy.
1.7. Pro: A guideline which relies on subjective offence will lead to selective enforcement, with content which offends those with the loudest complaints censored.
1.8. Pro: The content moderator would still have full discretion.
1.8.1. Con: A judge might have more latitude to disagree with the moderators.
1.9. Con: A wider berth for antisocial content has risks.
1.9.1. Con: These pale in comparison to the risks of quashing a sensible level of free speech.
1.9.1.1. Pro: Since any content can be deemed subjectively offensive, nothing will be safe from censorship under a 'construed as' rule.
1.9.2. Pro: One of the pitfalls of our increasing connection via technology is the resonance of bigotry.
1.9.2.1. Con: The best way to challenge such bigotry is by allowing for free and frank discussions, not relying upon inconsistent censorship.
1.10. Pro: The current policy makes it unclear whose sensibility is decisive.
1.11. Pro: The scope of what could be construed as mysogynistic, for instance, is massive, and virtually unlimited.