Discussion Title: Podcasting will continue to grow significantly over the next 10 years.

1. Podcasting will continue to grow significantly over the next 10 years.
1.1. Pro: People like to be able to listen and multitask.
1.1.1. Pro: When commuting listening to podcast is especially useful because one can learn something.
1.1.2. Con: Podcasts require more attention than listening to music.
1.1.2.1. Con: Many people can do more things at the same time and enjoy them all.
1.1.2.1.1. Pro: There is no reason why someone could not learn with podcasts while doing other activities, e.g. cleaning
1.2. Pro: Podcast technology is raw and in its infancy, so there is plenty of scope for its popularity to grow
1.3. Pro: Podcasts are the natural successor to talk radio, just as eBooks are the natural successor to paper books \(don't let the news stories with skewed stats dissuade you from this\), Spotify is the natural successor of music radio, and YouTube / Netflix is the natural successor to TV, so its growth is inevitable.
1.4. Con: It is difficult to include music from many different sources due to licensing issues, so podcasts are unlikely to replace radio entirely
1.5. Con: Podcasting is a fad that will get old soon.
1.6. Con: A new technology or information delivery system will be created within 10 years that will reduce podcast growth.
1.6.1. Con: This is a hypothetical assumption. An assumption of equal validity is that podcasts will remain relevant for generations, just as TV has been.
1.6.2. Pro: Virtual and augmented reality devices can provide a new type of information delivery system that creates competition for existing formats.
1.6.3. Con: Technology improvements will build on top of podcasts rather than replace them, and so the medium will continue to be known as podcasts
1.7. Pro: Podcasts have their own vital and active subculture.
1.8. Con: Podcasting has not been able to create strong enough viable economic models to continue to grow further.
1.8.1. Con: Some podcast superstars that attract a larger audience would still constitute podcast growth.
1.8.2. Con: Many podcasters use podcasts as an adjunct to their main business \(e.g. brand recognition\), rather than as a source of income
1.8.3. Con: Podcasting is relatively new. It is only a matter of time until 'inserted ad' platforms become available \(similar to ads in YouTube videos\)
1.8.4. Con: Community support models such as Patreon are being actively used to help support podcasts
1.9. Pro: Podcasting provides a platform for people, free of a filter or oversight, especially for people who have historically been unrepresented in media.
1.9.1. Con: As podcast platforms which distribute podcasts gradually centralise the process, the same problems of underrepresentation can reappear.
1.10. Pro: Podcasts are cheap to produce.
1.10.1. Con: While cheap on resources, podcast production requires significant time investment - audio needs to be cut, any effects added, volume normalised etc.
1.10.2. Pro: Podcasts do not need visual elements or video.
1.11. Con: There are too many podcasts already.
1.11.1. Con: This is a subjective individual view. If more podcasts are being produced, there must be demand for it from others.