Discussion Title: School uniforms should be banned

1. School uniforms should be banned
1.1. Pro: School uniforms are expensive.
1.1.1. Con: School uniforms are inexpensive.
1.1.1.1. Con: For some people the cost of school uniforms may be too high, especially because you need several uniforms per student.
1.1.1.2. Con: Not all schools are covering costs for the uniforms. In that case, school uniforms can be very expensive
1.1.1.3. Con: Students will have "normal" clothes for their free time also, so the school uniform leads to additional cost.
1.1.2. Pro: Adding unnecessary materials onto the already-expensive list of things students are required to buy just makes the education system further balanced in the favor of the wealthy.
1.2. Pro: It enforces conformity in society at the cost of individuality which is vital to young developing human beings.
1.2.1. Pro: School children are an a crucial age where they are forming their personal identities and defining who they are. Uniforms inhibit their ability to do this and thus hinder their development.
1.3. Pro: It is an infringement of an individual's right to develop their personality, not to mention their liberty in general.
1.4. Pro: School uniforms are unfair for students.
1.5. Pro: School uniforms enforce stereotypes and gender roles.
1.6. Con: School uniforms help people to feel like they belong.
1.7. Con: School uniforms make everyone equal.
1.7.1. Pro: It encourages to evaluate people not their appearance.
1.7.2. Con: School uniforms do not make everyone equal. People are still unequal, they are just wearing the same uniforms.
1.8. Con: School uniforms are practical.
1.8.1. Pro: School uniforms are better than the awkwardness of schools defining a dress code and then daily enforcing that dress code.
1.8.2. Con: It is impractical that you need several uniforms because you can not wear the same exemplar every day.
1.8.3. Con: It is impractical that you need to have school uniforms additionally to your "free time clothes" instead of being allowed to wear the same clothes for school and free time.
1.8.4. Con: School uniforms are impractical because they don't account for the preferred temperature of the students being forced to wear them.
1.9. Pro: School uniforms are uncomfortable.
1.9.1. Pro: School uniforms can be uncomfortable when you are forced to wear them on a really hot day.
1.9.2. Pro: Some schools make students wear ties, which are not comfortable on their necks.
1.9.3. Con: Lots of schools have uniforms that are perfectly comfortable for students.