Discussion Title: Schools should eliminate grades and replace them with competency based education.

1. Schools should eliminate grades and replace them with [competency based education](https://www.competencyworks.org/about/competency-education/).
1.1. Con: Different educational methodologies should compete. No need for CPE to be the sole solution.
1.1.1. Pro: It is important to realize two things. First, the current education system is really not good and is making more and more problems for society because the way it forces youth to think and live. And second, there are many more alternatives to CPE and if we were to change the whole education system, we would have to seek and consider many more systems that could replace current ridiculous grading and lecturing system.
1.1.2. Con: In current situation, there might not simply be time for competition between multiple methodologies. First step is to intervene and change education as a whole, then, when situation will be much better, might be the right time and place to experiment.
1.1.3. Pro: Grades are an incentive for hard work. Better would be a weighted grade of classical tests and some competency score.
1.1.3.1. Con: This claim is only true for a 'Pass' grade.  People will work hard to pass something.  However, for many people that is as far as their ambition goes.  They are not interested in As or Gold medals or being the best.
1.1.3.2. Pro: Talented students who can achieve competence easily have no incentive to achieve more.
1.1.3.2.1. Con: Talented students finish their education faster and save  their parents' money or their government's costs.
1.1.3.2.2. Con: There are always additional levels of competency that can be pursued, even if not as part of formal education.  CBE gives an approach and framework to self-improvement that continues beyond formal education.
1.1.3.2.3. Con: If a student achieves competency in one area, CBE frees them to focus on other areas that need improvement.
1.1.3.3. Con: Grades are not an incentive for hard work. They are an incentive for a certain kind of work. The kind to earn the grade. This is easily proven by examining the transition between systems that do not use traditional grading \(like many elementary schools nation-wide\) and those that do \(like most secondary programs\). Do elementary students work less hard than secondary?
1.1.3.4. Con: Grades are not an incentive for hard work, nor indicative of it. Some people are great test takers and get good grades easily with little to no work. Others work very hard and are terrible test takers and get poor grades.
1.1.3.5. Con: The achievement of competency is also an incentive for hard work.
1.1.3.6. Con: Grades sort students into "good" and "bad" without ensuring that all students master material.
1.1.3.7. Con: Grades are the wrong sort of incentive. They are largely extrinsic and ultimately undermine the development of kids, and the type of adult society needs. Otherwise we run the risk of developing adults who will only do something if they get something in return. Is that the sort of society we want?
1.1.4. Pro: If there is more than one methodology, they can be assessed to check which performs better and adapt systems accordingly.
1.2. Pro: CBE encourages students to apply learning to real-world problems rather than memorizing facts for a test.
1.2.1. Pro: The current system seems to reward the regurgitation of facts rather than any real understanding of the material.
1.3. Pro: CBE allows everyone to succeed, not just those who fit the system.
1.3.1. Con: Our current system "allows" everyone to succeed in the same manner. As long as they progress, there is incentive to keep going. If a student falls too far behind, they will drop out. exactly the same as currently happens.
1.3.2. Con: If there is no system of frame of reference then success doesn't mean anything.
1.3.2.1. Con: Professional relevance to an academic field or the job market is a sufficient frame of reference.
1.3.2.2. Con: The competency framework provides that frame of reference. Students compare their progress with the detailed competency descriptions and feedback. Success is personal mastery of the competency.
1.3.3. Pro: Grades and GPA have a [Medium to Strong correlation to Socioeconomic status](http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.3102/00346543075003417).  A focus on alternative grading systems offer a chance for a less biased means for measuring academic 'success'.
1.4. Pro: At least conceptually CBE is easier to implement in the professional environment, so that acknowledged learning path doesn't end after one leaves university, college or school
1.4.1. Pro: This is absolutely the key to reforming an academic system: what are they doing next, and how well does it transfer? Higher Ed institutions and employers alike find little value in something as subjective and unreliable as a GPA. If that is true, it is clear evidence that another system like CBE should be considered that might translate to more meaningful information for future experiences.
1.5. Con: Grades reflect competence.
1.5.1. Con: Grades cannot reflected competence, because grades are inconsistently applied to the same level of work across teachers and schools.  If they reflected competence one would not see this variation.
1.5.1.1. Con: Even if imperfect, grades do reflect a certain degree of competence, at least on the same measures.
1.5.2. Con: Grades only reflect competence when the material is non-subjective, such as mathematical formulas. As material advances and students are required to apply their own philosophical perspective and reasoning to material \(history, reading, art, music, civics\), subjectivity of the teacher's perspective in agreement or disagreement with the student makes grading no longer about competence.
1.5.3. Con: Poor performance on a single test that might have been caused by environmental factors like emotional or physical stress can ruin a grade. So even if the student has mastered the material, it can look like they didn't. Test performance does not accurately reflect subject competence, it just reflects test-taking competence.
1.5.4. Con: Most of the time grades reflect knowledge and memorization, not competence.
1.5.5. Pro: The concept of "demonstrating mastery" calls for a set of criteria to be met and a threshold at which mastery is sufficiently demonstrated. This is not much unlike a grade.
1.5.6. Con: Grades do not reflect competence. There are enough examples to support this idea. Grades eases out the assessment process, by categorising the students in the way it does. It is also true that a whole lot of students with high grade do well, but then that is not true for a whole lot of others. Hence the grading system falls short in identifying the students for vocational competency. CBE would be able to fill that void.
1.6. Pro: CBE accommodates individual learning styles and takes into account  mental, emotional and physical maturity. For example, tactile vs audible learning styles or large vs small motor-skills.
1.6.1. Con: Evidence for learning styles \(e.g. auditory or visual \) is [weak](https://www.psychologicalscience.org/news/releases/learning-styles-debunked-there-is-no-evidence-supporting-auditory-and-visual-learning-psychologists-say.html).
1.7. Pro: CBE gives students the "big picture" of their education.
1.7.1. Con: CBE discourages multi-disciplinary approach to the education path.
1.7.2. Pro: CBE provides detailed feedback that affirms what students have learned and provides next steps for learning.
1.7.2.1. Con: Providing extensive feedback for individual students in overcrowded classrooms is difficult. The need for more teachers and teaching space would be enormous.
1.7.3. Pro: Grades do not allow for multiple ways to learn and demonstrate mastery.
1.7.3.1. Pro: CBE allows students to learn and demonstrate mastery in different ways.
1.7.3.2. Pro: Grades focus on behaviors, such as turning in work on time, rather than on mastery.
1.7.3.2.1. Con: Learning to work around deadlines is an important skill in itself.
1.7.3.2.1.1. Pro: Formal education, among other things, should prepare students to get into the job market one day. In many jobs, completing tasks on time or on a set [deadline](http://careerminer.infomine.com/how-to-ensure-that-you-are-able-to-meet-your-deadlines/) is critically important.
1.7.3.2.1.1.1. Con: How to [prioritise](http://www.americasjobexchange.com/career-advice/urgent-and-important) tasks, how to set [attainable](https://www.forbes.com/sites/tykiisel/2013/03/27/deadlines-objectives-and-action-oh-my/#698334176e26) goals as well as not setting ‘arbitrary’ deadlines are also important skills for the future that can be better developed when children are more responsible for their own learning process.
1.7.4. Con: CBE still requires some system of evaluation. Whether or not the system is described as having "grades" or not, a grading scheme still exists in CBE as another form.
1.7.4.1. Con: The only grading that is referenced is achieving "mastery".This is a simple pass/fail scenario. If "mastery" is considered 70%, then  someone scoring 70% is equal to the person scoring 100% and that is just not true.
1.7.4.1.1. Con: The idea of competency as a mastery or lack of it is adequate in the real world. Corporates hire people on their ability to do a work with a certain proficiency. The further growth would depend on a similar pattern of \(in\)ability to do a certain thing. High grades do not assure that the performance would be repeated. Moreover, based on an grading system, someone with 70% cannot improve cannot be ruled out either.
1.7.4.2. Con: Grades are a form of evaluation, as is competency assessment.  But competency assessment is not the same as grading.  Grading implies a point/percentage system for a variety of activities. Assessment focuses or directly measuring competency levels.
1.7.4.3. Pro: Knowing a student's progress is essential to the entire concept of formal education. Anything that seeks to measure that--even if not called a "grade"--will be interpreted the same way. It's a fundamental part of learning that cannot be removed.
1.7.4.3.1. Con: The problem with grades is that they are not a direct assessment of progress toward educational objectives.  They simply measure whether the student jumped through all the right hoops. CBE eliminates all the extra stuff and gives feedback solely on progress toward proficiency.
1.7.4.3.1.1. Con: What is such feedback called, if not a "grade?"
1.7.4.3.1.1.1. Pro: It could be called a score, rating, assessment or level.
1.8. Pro: CBE encourages students to be self-motivated and engaged in the learning process.
1.8.1. Pro: People who are "terrible students" are actually great learners when they can engage with material at the time thy are ready for it on their own terms and in conjunction with topics they are interested in. Such as learning algebra to determine new proportions when scaling a sketch to a full size painting in art.
1.8.1.1. Con: Being able to learn material and generally to apply yourself when you would rather not is a necessary skill in real life.
1.9. Pro: CBE holds students to a consistent standard of learning.
1.9.1. Con: This in no way distinguishes CBE from current systems, when they  are run properly. A different system run by the same bureaucrats. "Proper" education can, and used to be, done using the current system.
1.9.2. Pro: The focus of education should be on developing critical thought and questioning authority in order to truly understand material.
1.10. Con: Grades allow to compare students' success.
1.10.1. Pro: Grades DO show a level of mastery, not just a pass/fail. By using a grading system that is fair and applied stringently there is a better comparison between candidates when you hire.
1.10.1.1. Pro: For example, a brain surgeon that graduated first in class, or last is not the same. They are both called "doctor", however, one is clearly better than the other. Simple "mastery" doesn't show this discrepancy.
1.10.2. Con: Comparing grades is not relevant to learning.
1.10.2.1. Con: Grades \(gradation\) is vital to comparative analysis. "Good enough" is seldom good enough.
1.10.2.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.10.1.1.
1.10.2.2. Con: Schools are not only about learning but also to create good workers for the economy.
1.10.2.2.1. Pro: -> See 1.7.3.2.1.1.
1.10.2.3. Con: Comparing grades is relevant for learning as it allows those with the greatest learning potential to attend university under scarce student spots.
1.10.3. Pro: Teachers are able to focus their energy on weak students. This allows for more individual care.
1.10.3.1. Con: Use of assessment tools and skills \(I.e. anecdotal note taking\) can be more effective at pinpointing weakness in developmental areas of students, thus resulting in better individualized care and learning.
1.10.4. Con: Grades comparison incentives individual competitiveness among students, [competitive-free](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cooperative_learning) based learning methods are more successful and let students gain better relational skills.
1.11. Con: Grades are an easy method for parents to track their children's academic progress.
1.11.1. Con: Goal of education is not for parents to simply see results of their children. This way of thinking supports simplification of individuals, making them seem as "grade holders" and not complex personalities with multiple values and specific skills.
1.11.1.1. Con: Although not the only factor, it is good that parents know the progress of their children in order to make practical decisions: hiring a private tutor, devoting more time to study or less, allowing more or fewer vacations, etc.
1.11.2. Con: Grades could lead to non proper conclusions, because of not conected to knowledge level causes of them - lack of homework, too high stress factor etc.
1.11.3. Con: Its easy to track levels of mastery as well. AI could be implemented in this individual based learning and assessment of mastery.
1.12. Con: Competency based education does not require removal of grades.
1.13. Con: Grades can be a motivating factor for students.
1.13.1. Pro: Grades can motivate students beyond academics. For example, sports eligibility can be dependent upon grades, thus motivating some of those students who are not necessarily academically driven.
1.13.2. Con: -> See 1.2.1.
1.13.3. Pro: Self motivation for school age children is low. Like many educational theories- they sound good in a vacuum- Many of the real world 7th graders aren't that motivated and need to be directed and pushed.
1.13.3.1. Con: Perhaps they are not self-motivated because they have had no reason to be.  Maybe we need to change a system that does not encourage self-motivation?
1.13.4. Con: Grades "can" be a motivating factor but competency should be the main factor of a student's motivation.
1.13.5. Pro: Grades could be even better used by awarding points beyond a 100% grade for correct extra work beyond the requirements for a 100% grade.
1.13.6. Con: Grades can also be a big source for disappointment and lack of motivation, because getting a bad grade once is often taken to mean that the student is failing at the subject in general. It undermines their self-esteem by suggesting they're simply "too dumb".
1.13.7. Pro: In CBE, students with significant deficits cannot realistically earn a proficient score and will see nothing but failing marks. If there is no grade based on effort or work habits to earn, there is no  straightforward way to reward the struggling student who begins to take steps to improve. By combining competency and work completion, traditional grades allow teachers to give "credit" for work toward improvement to all students, regardless of their starting point.
1.13.8. Con: Grades sometimes make children feel as if they were not good enough.
1.13.9. Con: Grades are a poor motivator that encourage students to do the bare minimum rather than engage in learning.
1.13.10. Con: -> See 1.7.3.
1.13.11. Con: Grades do not motivate students to take responsibility or become self-motivated learners.
1.13.11.1. Pro: Grades motivate students to do the bare minimum it takes to pass.
1.14. Pro: CBE in education is better suited for the transition to the professional sphere.
1.14.1. Pro: If employment structures in the workplaces of capitalist societies \(generally speaking\), are run on competence hierarchies, and a core component of an educations mission is to "prepare a citizen for life long learning in a society to which they belong and will operate within," then the notion of specificity - in terms of what learners are best equipped for, logically supports CBE as an optimal way to educate society. Put simply -\> Grades DO NOT equal societal progression. Competence does.
1.14.2. Con: Many academic and professional certifications \([ACT](http://www.act.org/content/act/en/products-and-services/the-act.html), [SAT](https://collegereadiness.collegeboard.org/sat), [CPA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certified_Public_Accountant), [TEFL](https://www.internationalteflacademy.com/faq/bid/102043/what-is-tefl-and-what-is-tefl-certification), etc\) require tests with grades. If young students do not get used to grading systems, they may be very challenging for them in the future.
1.14.2.1. Con: Competency to pass tests, exams, grade requirements is not the same as competency based education.
1.14.2.2. Con: CBE encourages creative problem solving - enhancing test-taking skills.
1.14.2.3. Con: Test-taking skills could be designed as a competency mastered by practicing tests. ;\)
1.14.2.4. Con: These grade systems could also be eliminated or converted.
1.14.2.4.1. Pro: Grades systems should be eliminated especially because the preparation for these tests is highly time-consuming and does not contribute sufficiently to knowledge/competency itself.
1.14.2.5. Con: Many of those tests are merely testing competency already.
1.15. Con: We should do neither. The adherence to and rote learning of a particular curriculum only serves the purpose of reaching arbitrary benchmarks. Time to learn does not negate this.
1.15.1. Pro: -> See 1.9.2.
1.16. Con: Grades are necessary to establish specific thresholds.
1.16.1. Con: Most of these "specific" thresholds are arbitrary, abstract and unnecessary outside of the education institutions. Therefore there is no reason why education institutions should hold onto them.
1.16.2. Pro: If grades were removed, there would not be a way to measure competency for post secondary institution as someone selects their vocation.
1.16.3. Pro: For example, to determine if a child should repeat a school year.
1.16.4. Con: The competency framework establishes the thresholds of learning. Students must continue working toward the competency until they master it. Students are not lumped into "years" but into levels of mastery.
1.16.5. Con: Grades favor those who are good test-takers.
1.16.6. Pro: -> See 1.14.2.
1.16.7. Con: "Good" students expect good grades and put pressure on teachers resulting in grade inflation.
1.16.8. Pro: -> See 1.10.2.3.
1.16.9. Con: The grades themselves do not mean that the student knows the subject well. It can mean that the student is able to memorize facts well, which does not directly translate to having knowledge about the subject at hand.
1.17. Con: Getting rid of grades and therefore changing the entire education system in many different countries can be extremely costly.
1.17.1. Con: Funding in the US is already being siphoned out of public schools into alternative education institutions where education is less focused on grades. It would be more beneficial to stop doing that and restructure the public school education.
1.17.2. Pro: The process to adapt to CBE can remove resources from other more pressing issues in the education sector.
1.17.3. Pro: Most publicly-funded education systems in many [countries](http://www.npr.org/sections/ed/2017/05/22/529534031/president-trumps-budget-proposal-calls-for-deep-cuts-to-education) has received significant [cuts](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/education/education-news/government-schools-budget-cuts-3bn-nao-a7473186.html), therefore, even if CBE is a system with more beneficial than the grade based one, it is unlikely that notn elite intuitions can implement it.
1.17.4. Con: CBE can be more resource-efficient, sourcing educational content from multiple places \(customized to the student\) rather than relying on the teacher primarily as a content-source.
1.17.5. Con: The cost associated with transitioning to a competency based assessment model should be looked at as a worthwhile investment, that, if done correctly, would produce huge returns in human capital. This would be a gradual change over decades so stress on a country's economy could be minimized. A competency based assessment system would also have to be piloted, starting at the local level. If done efficiently, transitioning at one school could possibly even save money.
1.18. Pro: CBE sustains analytical thinking, creativity and problem solving.
1.18.1. Con: Competency does not necessarily entail these traits.
1.18.2. Con: When done properly, these same attributes are being taught in the current system. Changing the system doesn't change the underlying problem of the wrong things being taught.
1.19. Pro: CBE allows a more personal evaluation of the students, valuing their individual competences and potential.
1.19.1. Con: CBE does not necessarily allow a student to pick a subject to be competent in. It merely allows a student the ability to work at his own pace, and perhaps using his preferred method, in order to attain a predetermined goal.
1.19.1.1. Con: While it does not guarantee flexibility, CBE does create a context for clearer indications of such interests. Such implications provide much of the necessary structure for a system of student-directed interests and growth.
1.19.2. Con: Some knowledge is not directly applicable to "real word": a lot of philosophy, literature, linguistics and even maths and physics. CBE would systematically destroy this pool of valuable knowledge by encouraging to focus on practical  skills and momentary economical conjuncture
1.19.2.1. Con: What, then, makes the knowledge valuable? In a world where Google can deliver information instantly \(and solve even relatively high-level math\), our culture must seriously evaluate the definition of "valuable" knowledge. A skills-focused system would achieve the fundamental purpose of education far more effectively and open doors for the kinds of aforementioned knowledge acquisitions based on need and context.
1.19.3. Pro: Grade levels should be eliminated and replaced with competency based education \(CBE\). CBE allows for students who are the same age but at different levels in different subject to continue their learning without being held back or left behind. This individualized learning system helps to benefit all students, in the most effective way possible.
1.19.3.1. Pro: A student's development is not defined by exposure to formal education alone. There are other factors like home, exposure to vocational opportunities, team building activities etc that will affect how a student gets educated. Thus the development pattern is not the same. Assessing students as per standard grade as against CBE leads to a skewed system, consequent to which students who have been graded high/low do not perform proportionally in the real world. CBE also shifts focus to competency.
1.19.4. Pro: Not every student can be expected to be great at the same thing: students should be motivated  to develop competences they are good at and enjoy.
1.19.5. Con: Personalized evaluations are time-consuming. It might not be feasible for teachers to provide individual written feedback.
1.20. Pro: CBE allows learning to be self-paced.  Students move on when they demonstrate mastery.
1.20.1. Con: Students become discouraged when they don't advance with peers.
1.20.1.1. Con: Students learn at different speeds. Where one may excel in math another may excel in reading. Those who excel in math can progress together making accomplishment instead of age defining peers.
1.20.1.2. Con: The only reason they are discouraged is because they are told they "failed". That coupled with the fact that the entire system is build around being in a certain grade at a certain time. Remove those two factors, and students would run out of reasons to be discouraged.
1.20.2. Con: When students advance only after proving competence, "slow learners" are in the same position they are in now. There will always be the stigma of being behind. It is this stigma which makes a dropout.
1.20.3. Con: Is not neccesary to master all the competences otherwise a lot of children would not pass, it's enough to have a minimum of that competence, that would be determinated by the teacher.
1.20.4. Pro: The mastery of skills is critical before advancing to more complex content and is necessary for synthesis at higher levels, so CBE puts the focus where it should be: developing skills and competency rather than completing work and extra credit for the sake of a grade.
1.20.5. Pro: Theoretically, self paced learning would eliminate what is called the [Matthew Effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_effect#Education). This is where students who are behind in early grades continue to fall farther behind. The current expectation in education is that struggling students be promoted, because their age, and that they will hopefully catch up as their peers move on to more difficult tasks which require a foundation that has not been mastered.