Discussion Title: School is bad for your mental health

1. School is bad for your mental health.
1.1. Pro: Compulsory education means that young children are separated from their families from an early age, regardless of their personal circumstances.
1.1.1. Con: Families can opt to home school.
1.1.1.1. Con: Home schooling might not be doable.
1.1.1.1.1. Pro: Home schooling might be too expensive.
1.2. Pro: The national curriculum forces children to learn what the state wishes and this is not aligned to an individuals personal interests and goals.
1.2.1. Con: There is an advantage in everyone learning some of the same basic knowledge, as the ability to share a baseline understanding in mathematics, social studies, science, and language aids communication.
1.2.1.1. Con: There is also a disadvantage in making people learn things that they might not be interested in. For example if a child is not interested in history they will most likely not put in real effort to learn history.
1.2.2. Con: The student has the option to take extra curricular activities within their interest.
1.2.2.1. Con: This might make them question why instead of learning what they want to learn they're forced to learn what could in their opinion be useless information.
1.2.2.2. Con: This adds an extra load to a child's life.
1.2.3. Pro: Children often enter school with different abilities and comprehensive skills. Setting a curriculum ultimately leaves some students behind.
1.3. Pro: The hidden curriculum focuses on training children to be obedient to authority and to conform with organisational systems. This is disempowering.
1.3.1. Con: In adult life, for example in the workplace, people need to follow hierarchies and obey those above. Since schools is supposed to prepare children for the adult life, that is not necessarily a bad thing.
1.3.1.1. Con: Schools don't prepare children for the adult world.
1.4. Con: School is necessary for children to learn basic knowledge \(maths, languages, arts\).
1.4.1. Con: These basics can be found online or taught at home. School in the traditional sense isn't necessary.
1.4.2. Con: The necessity to learn has no bearing on the affect school may have in order to teach children this knowledge.
1.5. Con: School are low consequence environments where children and young people are able to develop their skills and competencies in a risk managed environment. This enables them to integrate into the adult world when they are ready to do so.
1.5.1. Pro: Skills that are taught here include stress/performance management \(e.g. exams/grades\), social skills \(friendships\), time management, and self control: Skills that you will need to manage life in society generally.
1.5.2. Con: Adolescents are often taught information that don't have much real world application. This does not help them integrate into the adult world.
1.6. Con: Schools provide the necessary basic resources to learn and to include all possibilities of interests students may enjoy.
1.7. Con: Schooling per se does not affect mental health. Other issues around it \(bullying, stress, conflict\) are what affects mental health.
1.7.1. Con: School presence a collective set of issues that impact students in a condensed way.
1.7.2. Pro: Mental stress is caused by parents, peers, family conflicts/troubles, and the students themselves---not school. Example: Some high school students choose to take AP's and honors with acknowledgement to how those classes can affect their mental well being.
1.8. Con: Most citizens attend schools \(as children and adults\) and have good mental health.
1.8.1. Con: Approximately [42.5 million](https://www.newsweek.com/nearly-1-5-americans-suffer-mental-illness-each-year-230608) U.S. citizens \(1 in 5 people\) suffer from mental illness.
1.9. Pro: Exam pressures mean that many children and young people experience stress regularly throughout their education.
1.9.1. Con: New types of education, without exams or grades could be implemented.
1.9.2. Con: Stress is a natural part of life. Children and young people will experience it in many areas regularly.
1.9.2.1. Con: Recurrent [stress](https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002059.htm) is not good for children.
1.9.3. Con: Exam stress can be mitigated by rest, eating well, and pacing one's study schedule.
1.10. Pro: Schools expect and encourage conformity, and so young people who have identities outside the norm \(transgender, homosexuality\) grow up with shame.
1.10.1. Con: That is not inherent to schooling, that is a byproduct of intolerant school administrations.
1.10.1.1. Con: School administrators are likely to treat those that are different inadequately, on purpose or not.
1.10.2. Con: Some schools are places of inclusion and instill values of respect and solidarity.
1.11. Con: School can, and should, teach strategies for managing mental wellbeing.
1.11.1. Con: Schools currently don't do this.