Discussion Title: Sexualised artworks of prepubescent girls - "Loli" - encourage pedophilia and ultimately the abuse of minors

1. Sexualised artworks of prepubescent girls - "Loli" - encourage pedophilia and ultimately the abuse of minors.
1.1. Pro: Anything that displays underage individuals in erotic or pseudo-erotic situations is morally wrong
1.1.1. Con: Even if a depiction of fictional underage individuals in an erotic situation is considered to be morally wrong, that is no guarantee that the audience of that depiction will be more inclined to abuse minors or consume non-fictional pedophilic media.
1.1.2. Con: Saying 'X is morally wrong' is not really an argument. It basically just states 'I don't like it'. There is no such thing as universal morals.
1.1.3. Con: Depiction of generally considered immoral acts isn't immoral in itself as it doesn't involve real people.
1.2. Pro: "Pedophilia \[...\] generally affecting adults, characterized by sexual fantasies about or attempts to engage in sexual acts with a prepubescent child of the same or opposite sex" [britannica.com](https://www.britannica.com/topic/pedophilia) 
does not exclude sexual fantasies  about fictional characters.
1.2.1. Pro: People do fall in love with [fictional](https://www.wikihow.com/Cope-With-Being-in-Love-With-a-Fictional-Character) characters.
1.3. Con: No actual minor is abused by drawing cartoons.
1.3.1. Pro: Cartoons are not real
1.3.2. Con: Hentai should not depict anyone who is under the age of consent.
1.3.3. Con: Portraying minors in sexual poses in cartoons reinforces existing systems of abuse, even if in that instance no actual child is harmed.
1.4. Con: Pedophilia is a sexual preference that, like all sexual preferences, will exist whether or not we 'encourage' it.
1.4.1. Pro: Loli provides an outlet for people who don't act upon their urges in real life.
1.4.1.1. Con: While this may be true, Loli may fuel desire until a person with such sexual preferences may no longer be able to restrain themself.
1.4.2. Con: This idea doesn't have bearing on the question of if Loli artwork encourages pedophilia.
1.5. Con: Just because fictional characters appear to look young doesn't make them underage. Certain art styles include big eyes and other childlike features while the drawn character is actually supposed to be an adult.
1.5.1. Con: Some lolicon media explicitly indicate that a given loli character is underage. In some other cases, the age is left ambiguous; in such cases, the author's intended age of a loli character may be less relevant than the audience's perception of that character's age. Childlike features will make it more likely that the audience perceives that character as underage.
1.5.2. Pro: Many loli characters are not underage at all.
1.5.3. Con: Lolicon characters may not be underage, but they do actually look extremely underaged, so it doesn't matter if the age is explicit or not, the impact on the viewer will be the same
1.6. Con: Viewing content that features certain behaviors does not necessarily provoke individuals to reenact said behavior themselves.
1.6.1. Pro: Playing violent [video games](http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-33960075) for example has not been proven to increase violent behaviors.
1.6.2. Con: It may create a false sense of acceptance of society
1.6.3. Con: It might lead people who previously didn't, to experiment in it.
1.7. Pro: Depicting children sexually works towards normalizing such behavior
1.7.1. Pro: The more sexualized imagery depicting young\(er\) girls becomes accepted in public, the [less](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normalization_\(sociology\)) we react to it.
1.8. Pro: Enjoying artworks with minors in sexual contexts is based on attraction to real-life minors and therefore pedophilia.
1.8.1. Con: Pedophilia is an attraction and does not define ones actions. Pedophiles can exist without molesting children just as some child molesters are not necessarily attracted strictly to prepubescents
1.8.2. Con: Artwork, writing, movies, and plays exist over a variety of topics that we do not condone in 'real life', including very horrid topics such as portrayals of the holocaust and movies such as 'Saw'.  It is difficult to make an argument censoring one medium on one topic, without expanding to all mediums and all topics.
1.8.2.1. Con: Artwork about the holocaust and other atrocities, with some exceptions, portray those committing what is considered immoral in a negative light. However, loli artwork often presents the act of pedophilia in a positive light.
1.8.2.2. Pro: Movies and art represent human desires that exist but are not expressed, such as cannibalism, murder, adventure. It is a way to explore such feelings without having to physically experience them.
1.8.3. Con: Legality in most secular nations is based on actions and attempted actions, not potential action or potential inclination to action.
1.8.3.1. Pro: Legality does not pertain to whether or not loli artwork encourages pedophilia.
1.8.4. Pro: Legally, yes.
1.9. Con: While some cartoons, movies or series might have an impact on ourselves, porn doesn't change anyone because of it's content. Watching a porn movie about a girl being unable to pay her plumber and thus leading them to sex doesn't make you want to become a plumber to get laid. So watching sexualized cartoons won't make you want to be a pedophile
1.10. Con: Watching videos and reading comics with Lolis can decrease the demand for actual child pornography and therefore reduce the number of children who get abused to produce these films.
1.10.1. Con: The popularity of Lolicon on social media platforms like reddit, tumblr and 9Gag and could lead to more people developing sexual desires towards underage girls.
1.10.1.1. Con: Similar arguments are made about video games \(fictional environment where no actual humans are hurt\) and real life violence, and research has repeatedly [disproved](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2018/01/180116131317.htm)it.
1.10.1.1.1. Con: Sexual desires and violence are hardly comparable
1.10.1.2. Pro: Social media where users actively discuss loli in the context of real life experiences and actual children should be policed for inciting potential action
1.10.2. Pro: Lolicon is easily and legally available and makes it unneccessary to take the risk of downloading illegal videos with real children
1.11. Pro: -> See 1.10.1.