Discussion Title: Should Humans be Monogamous?

1. Humans should not be monogamous.
1.1. Con: Normalizing monogamous heterosexual marriage is important for stable and healthy cultures.
1.1.1. Con: Normative behaviors are, by definition, exclusionary. Exceptions to the norm are often socially stigmatized or even subjected to violence.
1.2. Pro: You don't have to be monogamous. It's your choice. To force others to lean to your way of thinking is just as bad as forcing those same people to be monogamous.
1.3. Pro: Sexual attraction to multiple partners is biological. Monogamy is a social construct founded in the ideals of religion and the "feelings" of partners. Changing the norms could lead to an evolution in the basic idea of bonding.
1.3.1. Con: There are plenty of monogamous individuals that have no inclination whatsoever towards polyamorous relationships; attempted evolution or not, it's not certain that broad society will even want to change.
1.3.1.1. Con: By nature, humans adhere to the ideas they have been taught or what is safe. Ideas like attraction to a same sex partner still struggle to be accepted as the norm. Encouraging people to follow their true inclination - monogamy or polygamy- without guilt should be the goal of society as a whole.
1.3.1.2. Pro: Opening cultural norms to monogamy or polygamy would not make a difference because monogamy is based on more than sex- safety, security, common history and common goals such as caring for children.
1.4. Pro: The sheer rate of divorce proves statistically that humans can't handle marital commitment. [www.apa.org](http://www.apa.org/topics/divorce/index.aspx)
1.4.1. Con: There are many factors that can contribute to a failed marriage. It may be better to limit marriages from occurring to begin with: remove the religion component; raise the age restriction; require a period of reflection after applying for a license to marry; require living together for a required minimum term.
1.5. Con: The idea of marriage comes from God, therefore it's part of his plan for humans to be monogamous.
1.5.1. Con: This assumes that god is real, which is debatable.
1.5.2. Con: Marriage ceremonies are found all over the world in different guises; it is impossible to say if it came from religion, or would have developed of its own volition.
1.6. Pro: For many people, instinctive sexual urges towards other people don't go away after marriage; as such, this may be a sign that monogamy is counter-intuitive for humans.
1.6.1. Pro: If our instincts are to be intimate with more than one person, we should not be denying ourselves our impulses. Deprivation in that way causes resentment, ultimately souring a relationship anyway.
1.6.2. Con: Marriages occur for more reasons than exclusively sex; the idea of exclusivity is vital in reciprocal human relationships, on a mental/emotional basis.
1.7. Con: Loyalty and commitment are important to growth as a human. The ultimate proof of those things is in our marriage to another human.
1.7.1. Con: Infidelity runs rampant in the marriage institution, therefore marriage is no guarantee of monogamy. Supporting, loving and caring for more than one partner requires more commitment than looking after the needs of only one person.
1.8. Pro: Humans are animals. Animals in the wild don't have only one partner.
1.8.1. Con: This is not quite true; there are many animals that are [monogamous](http://mentalfloss.com/article/55019/10-monogamous-animals-just-want-settle-down).
1.9. Con: The failure of the family structure is what's ruining our countries. [Studies indicate](https://www.yourazlawfirm.com/40-facts-two-parent-families/) that when children are raised in a 2-parent home, they are better adjusted. Without monogamous marriage, the erosion of the family structure would be complete.
1.9.1. Con: You will have to define the meaning of "ruin". In many if not all aspects of well being, humanity is currently at its peak and constantly improving. Contrary to many conservative claims, there is not a "better state" to go back to.
1.10. Con: Excessive physical partners increases the risk of STDs, which is, obviously, bad for our health. One partner insures safety from disease.
1.10.1. Con: The medical communities would place higher value on curing/eliminating STDs if the conditions were not associated with behavior contrary to accepted norms.
1.10.2. Con: Having one partner is not a guarantee, since such partner could have a hereditary conditions or have undisclosed sexual partners.
1.10.3. Con: People in open relationships are more aware of the risks involved and are more open to testing often and disclosing their test results with future partners before hand. [Comparison between sexual practices](https://doi.org/10.1111/jsm.12987)