Discussion Title: Should politicians and public servants be required to be entirely transparent?

1. Politicians and public servants should be required to be entirely transparent.
1.1. Con: International diplomacy and national security among other things require secrecy.
1.1.1. Con: Said diplomacy and national security do not typically extend into the politicians financial or influential affairs
1.2. Pro: If people choose someone to represent their will, they need to be sure that this person trusts these people and does what they want them to do. A public leader's life belongs to their people. So not a single action of such people should be secret from those who elected them.
1.3. Con: Privacy is a fundamental human right and should be respected regardless of who the person is.
1.3.1. Pro: Some aspects of personal privacy would be compromised.
1.3.2. Pro: Politicians should have the right to control aspects of their personal lives and should only be transparent about public activity.
1.3.2.1. Pro: Aspects about politician's that do not affect their constituents or people that depend on them should not be scrutinized.
1.4. Con: Focusing on politician's personal lives can detract from real life political issues.
1.5. Con: Fear of their personal lives being scrutinized may make people refrain from joining politics altogether.
1.6. Pro: Conflicts of interest would be clearly obvious, before and after election.
1.6.1. Pro: It would be evident if the politician were the beneficiary of special interests, which are continually getting more difficult to identify in today's political landscape.
1.7. Pro: Attaching truth or falsehoods to campaign promises would be easier with access to background information.
1.8. Pro: Many claims made regarding positions on economy or social policy could more easily be validated.
1.9. Con: How transparency is defined would be a contentious process, and prone to the construction of and exploitation of loopholes.
1.10. Pro: Citizens could validate the information provided against claims in the media, or by other politicians.
1.11. Pro: It would reduce the number of candidates who have covert or otherwise ill intentions from even applying for office.
1.11.1. Con: This can be achieved by doing background checks that do not necessarily expose details of their private lives to the public.