Discussion Title: Should All Nations Denuclearize?

1. All nations should denuclearize.
1.1. Pro: Ideally, all weapons, nuclear or not, should be eliminated, because killing is never a good thing. It doesn't seem possible in practice to eliminate all weapons, but the most destructive one, the nuclear weapon, could be eliminated.
1.1.1. Pro: Developing nuclear technology is a long and complex process, so the UN has the opportunity to spot that activity and end it before a weapon is built illegally.
1.2. Con: Smaller nations like North Korea have no incentive to denuclearize since it is a large part of their defensive strategy.
1.2.1. Pro: It also functions as a threat against invasion or takeover.
1.3. Con: The first nations to denuclearize will be vulnerable to still-nuclear enemies.
1.3.1. Con: That is what allies are for. To begin with, the nuclear arsenal of, e.g., all NATO states could be centralized.
1.3.2. Pro: No one will agree to denuclearize while their enemies still have nuclear weapons.
1.4. Con: The method for making nuclear weapons is now known and could be done by small, independent terrorist organizations, so denuclearization would not make the use of nuclear weapons impossible.
1.4.1. Con: The process is relatively simple, but the materials are very difficult to obtain.
1.5. Con: Nuclear arms has allowed nations to be forced into a stalemate since launching an attack can result in the possible end of countries or worse, the world. As a result, nuclear nations are much more peaceful and act more democratically to other nuclear nations.
1.5.1. Pro: A nuclear weapon can be seen as an unquantifiable addition to military might. While some may view a hundred thousand military members as an unobtainable goal, a weapon of such power may be seen to help equalize any disparity of forces.
1.5.2. Pro: The lack of nuclear weapons would facilitate and reinstate the conventional warfare that's now behind the Western World.
1.5.3. Con: Democratic governments have strong incentives not to wage war anyway - even if nuclear weapons are off the table.
1.5.3.1. Pro: Every dying soldier reduces the number of people who vote in favor of that government.
1.5.3.2. Pro: War eliminates potential trading partners.
1.5.3.3. Con: \(Non-nuclear\) war can boost the economy in the short term.
1.5.3.4. Pro: Possible retaliation strikes kill civilians, which also reduces the number of voters that are in favor of the government.
1.6. Con: This won't happen. You can only do this by making nuclear weapons no longer useful, and that can only be done by making them obsolete.
1.6.1. Con: The question is not "would" but "should". If everyone agrees that it should happen, then we'll find a way.
1.7. Pro: No one actually wants to use nuclear weapons, so there is no reason for anyone to have them.
1.7.1. Con: Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs are proofs that sometimes some people want to use the nuclear weapon.
1.7.2. Con: The knowledge that a state has a working weapon of such power and the willingness to use it can be why some countries with higher resources are not attacked.
1.7.3. Con: The want to use a certain weapon doesn't necessarily correlate with the need to do so.
1.7.4. Con: It is not so much the willingness to use the weapon as it is the fear of retaliation. This is what mutual retaliation is about and keeps the balance of power in check. The only way to get rid of them is to do so all at once and then hope that everybody came through on the promise and will keep that promise in the future, which is completely unpredictable.
1.8. Pro: The material used for nuclear weapons could be better used to create clean energy.
1.8.1. Con: As long as such materials are used, there will be some who use the materials covertly for making weapons.
1.8.2. Con: This doesn't mean removing nuclear weapons. It just means making clean energy in parallel with them.
1.9. Con: It would only take one rogue state that refuses to denuclearize to create the possibility of nuclear war.
1.9.1. Pro: We need to have the nuclear weapon as a tool of dissuasion in order to avoid an attack from a rogue state.
1.9.1.1. Con: Conventional weapons are more than sufficient for this. Especially if you take the military capacities of allies into account.
1.9.2. Pro: The situation where all nations have denuclearised represents an unstable equilibrium - dramatically incentivising a nation to be the first to renuclearise. Blanket policing of this situation to prevent its occurrence would be prohibitively expensive and unsustainable over time.
1.9.2.1. Con: The situation where all nations have nuclear weapons represents an unstable equilibrium - it is only a matter of time until nuclear war is triggered by accident or miscommunication.
1.9.3. Pro: Monitoring comprehensive global adherence to a standard that would be acceptable to all nations is not presently within our capability.
1.9.4. Con: The possibility of nuclear war already exists. The point of denuclearizing is to remove that possibility.
1.9.4.1. Pro: It [has been estimated](https://80000hours.org/podcast/episodes/anders-sandberg-extending-life/) that the probability per year for a nuclear war to start is between 0.1-1.0%.
1.10. Pro: The world would be a much safer place if nuclear weapons didn't exist.
1.10.1. Con: During the Cold War, the threat of nuclear destruction secured the peace.
1.10.2. Con: Nuclear weapons are almost never used and work rather as a threat device.
1.10.3. Pro: Nuclear weapons could be lost unintentionally. The US alone lost [8 nuclear weapons](http://mentalfloss.com/article/17483/8-nuclear-weapons-us-has-lost).
1.10.4. Pro: Testing nuclear weapons causes environmental damage.
1.10.5. Pro: Nuclear bombs can go off accidentally, as [this list of near misses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_nuclear_close_calls) shows.
1.10.6. Pro: -> See 1.9.4.1.