Discussion Title: Should the European Union intervene to defend Catalan autonomy?

1. Should the European Union intervene in the Catalonia-Spain dispute?
1.1. Pro: Catalonia's autonomy must be protected to avoid similar repression by any Member State government.
1.1.1. Con: The EU has an obligation to stand with the governments which it is comprised of. In no case should the EU undermine the sovereignty of one of its members. The EU shouldn't support separatist movements against its members, if it were to, many other members who have separatist movements in their countries would lost trust in the EU to protect their interests.
1.1.1.1. Con: The EU has no absolute obligation towards any country. If they find it well supported, they can kick out a state from the union.
1.1.2. Pro: The EU has an obligation to listen and accept the independence of Catalonia, and go against Spain about the violence used during the referendum.
1.1.2.1. Con: Its only obligation is to follow the rules and seek for union, which is far from intervention.
1.1.2.2. Con: They only have to accept the results of a referendum, wether its results is independence or not.
1.1.3. Pro: Political rights are being [vulnerated](https://www.elnacional.cat/en/news/un-spain-guarantee-sanchez-political-rights_251232_102.html) as said by UN.
1.1.3.1. Con: From the reference, UN literally said "take all necessary measures to ensure that Mr Jordi Sánchez i Picanyol can exercise his political rights". That's way far from saying "his human rights are being vulnerated" taking into account the context in which he's involved, a judicial cause for different offenses.
1.1.3.2. Con: The complete quote also says: “This request does not imply that any decision has been reached on the subject of the matter under consideration“.
1.1.4. Con: The Generalitat of Catalonia and Òmnium Cultural have invested millions on propaganda to misinform the population. The claims of repression have been exaggerated to excite secessionist.[elpais.com](https://elpais.com/elpais/2017/10/17/inenglish/1508235718_372067.html)
1.1.4.1. Con: "El Pais" journal has repeatedly been accused of fake news, usage of unrelated media to bring readers to false conclusions, image manipulation, and partiality.
1.1.5. Con: During the demonstrations of March 15, 2012, [the Catalan police \(the Mossos\) on the orders of Catalan politicians, exercised a greater repression](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EaCtst2E-SU). They are the same politicians that there are now in the autonomic government, since the Catalans voted them again there were autonomic elections that were celebrated 27 of September of 2015. [www.youtube.com](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=puQJeNuqmAs)
1.1.5.1. Con: Police brutality is wrong against peaceful protestors always. One cannot justify the innaction of Europe by blaming polititians which many of them don't have anything to do with 15M, of their own police violence.
1.1.5.2. Con: The Catalan government repressed the 15 M movement, that is true. The 1-O referendum however, was a charge against the electorate by a police force summoned from Madrid. The context of police brutality during the referendum has been viewed as a stark image of state violence against a democratic process.
1.1.6. Con: There's no repression at all. The only demand is to follow the rules, and Independency politicians and lobbies broke the law.
1.1.6.1. Con: Nazi demonstrations are well allowed in Spain, and when confronted, the police beats the confronters, and protect the Nazis.
1.1.6.2. Con: More than forty people have been accused, some condemned, only for being independentists. Not politicians nor belonging to any lobby.
1.1.7. Con: The government of Catalonia is putting in great danger the autonomy of Catalonia by attempting to create an independent state against the law and the will of half of the Catalan population.
1.1.7.1. Con: An independent state has inherently more autonomy that an autonomous community inside another state.
1.1.7.1.1. Pro: Even more if, as an autonomous community inside that state, that autonomy is compromised.
1.1.8. Con: It's not reasonable to interfere or open precedents in situations of disputes between a region and a member state. The EU wasn't build to dictate laws about the Constitution of each one of his members.
1.1.8.1. Con: But it should protect its citizens from an unlawful application of the national constitution.
1.2. Pro: The European Union has a responsibility to promote cooperation and dispute resolution.
1.2.1. Con: The concept of dispute does not apply. Catalunya is not a member of the EU, but a region of a member state of the EU.
1.2.2. Pro: EU might do Europe a favor by assisting any communities to seek a peaceful independence, to upheld individual freedom and allegiance to a supporting governing body for all it's citizens. Because it's better to restore social peace, than give fuel to contempt. In the end it's about giving people power to have a say in their local community, which is better than having a governing body ruling without personal implications to decisions.
1.2.2.1. Con: The law and the democratic institutions are designed to protect minorities against a repressive Government. On this case, Catalonian government has illegally declared independence against the will of half of its population. Catalonian Justice will pursue the application of the law to protect all catalan citizens and not just the ones that are pro-independence. EU should support the rule of law of their member states.
1.2.3. Pro: It is the purpose of the EU to resolve internal conflict within Europe, in order to prevent further big wars. The EU must be truthful to its original purpose.
1.2.3.1. Pro: The EU must protect human rights even if a so-called state member decides otherwise. If not so, the EU is just a big excuse that lets everything happen the same way all over again.
1.2.3.2. Con: However, it is also the EU's and national governemnts duty to protect, avoid, and punish crime. Evidence of crimes committed by Catalan separatist leaders has been presented, and it is up to the judge to decide whether they should be punished. Furthermore, Catalonia is not a state per se \(and if it was, its entrance into the EU would most likely be vetoed by Spain\), so the EU isn't technically preventing conflict between member states.
1.2.3.2.1. Con: Making possible to exercise the right of self-determination or the consequences of it can never be a crime. There must be violence for that, which is non-existent.
1.2.4. Pro: Only through mediation can opposing factions reach a compromise and bring stability to the European economy.
1.2.4.1. Con: Democracy does not always guarantee a compromise. This is a sign that no qualified majority is allowing the intended changes. The rule of law would ensure that no minority tries to overcome democracy.
1.2.5. Pro: When "[United in Diversity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motto_of_the_European_Union)" is the official motto of the EU, it makes sense to protect all nationalities on the continent - especially those nations who don't have a state of their own.
1.2.6. Con: In this case, the best way to promote cooperation would have been for Puigdemont to have not declared independence and to have called for elections. He decided to follow ERC's and CUP's more radical and secessionist path, one that would break up any possibility of reconciliation.
1.3. Pro: The EU must act to avoid an escalation of tensions between protestors and Spain's security forces.
1.3.1. Con: -> See 1.1.1.
1.3.2. Con: The EU have already expressed it [support](https://www.thelocal.es/20171010/spain-has-eu-support-on-catalan-independence-spanish-minister) to Spain against Catalan independence.
1.3.3. Pro: The European Union should intervene in the Catalan crisis by encouraging dialogue and not remaining aloof.
1.3.4. Con: Spanish security forces must act in a proportionate manner. Any disproportional use of force should be prosecuted by the judicial department. Free and accurate press should also disclose any right's violations. EU would have no institution with means to act at this level
1.3.5. Con: There is no escalation of tensions between protesters and Spain's security forces. There were only incidents during the celebration of the so called 'independence referendum'. Nothing else has happened since then.
1.4. Con: It is against EU's interest to promote separatism.
1.4.1. Pro: Europe would risk fragmenting more, making member states and the European Union less competitive.
1.4.2. Con: Catalan separatism is mostly pro EU, gaining a true European nation could strengthen the union.
1.4.2.1. Con: The problem is that, even if you gain a true European country, Spain will feel betrayed by EU: you gain one nation but, at the same time, you lose another one.
1.4.2.2. Con: There is no point in the EU having Catalonia as a pro-EU separate state since Catalonia, as part of Spain, is already part of the EU.
1.4.3. Con: If the most important objective of the European Union is becoming a European Federation, splitting up all European nation states would be the best way to do this: small and powerless states need to unite in order to defend themselves and their interests.
1.4.4. Con: Mediating between the national and the regional government to avoid the conflict escalating does not necessarily mean the EU would be promoting separatism.
1.4.4.1. Con: Not explicitly, but they would implicitly. This would give separatists a chance to be recognized by an institution, something that would fuel separatist movements in other regions of Europe.
1.4.5. Pro: The EU should not and cannot intervene as it is a union of Member States. Therefore, it should not and cannot be partisan of secessionist movements of one of its Member States. However, it should be proactive in finding a solution together with the involved parties.
1.4.6. Con: Assuming that the EU interest is effective decision making, it is unanimity, not number of member states, what is blocking effective decision making. With qualified majority voting, additional member states do not impact the decision making process.
1.4.7. Pro: Catalonia is already one of the regions with greatest autonomy in Europe. Other regions with similar separatist movements are given less autonomy. This gives the Catalan governemnt \(which has almost always been Catalan-nationalist\) a lot of space to promote their ideology, such as through public TV, education, and other Catalan-controlled institutions.
1.4.7.1. Con: The Spain of autonomous regions is becoming more and more centralised as the central government and the Supreme Court actually keep vetoing laws approved by the Catalan parliament such as anti climate change laws, anti fracking, help for those who can't afford electricity, among others.
1.4.8. Con: It's also against EU interest to promote violence and silence democratic claims.
1.4.8.1. Con: The EU is not promoting violence by not intervening, but rather the opposite.
1.5. Con: The EU should not directly intervene in the Catalonian crisis but instead promote a free and fair referendum.
1.5.1. Con: The promotion of a free and fair referendum would be a direct intervention in the Catalonian crisis.
1.6. Con: The EU inherently required less autonomy in its member nations. Any action taken to protect autonomy will lead to less autonomy in the future.
1.6.1. Con: Slippery slope fallacy. It would be protecting the autonomy of a nation against another one, and afterwards requiring it the same autonomy concession to the union as all other EU states.
1.7. Pro: Catalonia is a key contributor to the European economy. Europe must act to avoid instability in the region.
1.7.1. Con: Catlonia will be able to contribute more to the European budget independently than as part of Spain as there are fewer dues to be paid to Madrid.
1.7.2. Con: The breakage of legal security by declaring \(illegally\) independence of a state is the worst case scenario for the European stability. Even a legal agreed declaration of independence will create economic instability during the transition period.
1.7.3. Con: The size of Catalonia Economy should be an argument
1.8. Con: Non-intervention could allow further repression by the Spanish state. This could favourably result in the unity of the independence movement and provide an additional justification for claiming independence.
1.8.1. Con: It is unsupported that the Spanish government is repressing the population in Catalonia.
1.9. Pro: The EU must support democratic principles.
1.9.1. Pro: Doubts have been raised about the impartiality of the courts in Spain. In the words of the head of Catalan separatist Clara Ponsati's legal team, regarding the status of a Spanish court, ["Has it been hand-picked by a government who says ‘we have hand-picked you and this is what you are going to do?'"](https://af.reuters.com/article/worldNews/idAFKCN1HC1CP)
1.9.1.1. Con: Spanish courts have uphold EU law in other cases, for example with Mr Puigdemont. The same cannot be said of Germany for example on such case.
1.9.2. Pro: The EU cannot keep telling the world that some states are democracies just because. Violations of human rights are ussually [justified and answered](http://www.e-ir.info/2012/01/25/why-intervention-in-libya-was-justified/), it's certainly possible that the Spanish state can be scrutinized and dealt with in such violations in a peaceful way. International law wouldn't recognize these violations as fair even if you were to vote for them.
1.9.3. Pro: The use of archaic laws such as sedition and rebellion to imprison politicians in Catalonia make national debate impossible. In the US for instance, they are rarely used for fear of endangering the Constitution's First Amendment protection of [free speech](https://criminal.findlaw.com/criminal-charges/rebellion-or-insurrection.html).
1.9.3.1. Con: Use of archaic is not valid in this context, as these laws are protecting territory integrity against unilateral actions by a group of regional rulers. So they are perfectly "modern" laws as well as objectively necessary in democracy. No country in the world allows a region to decide, by itself and without following democracy rules \(that is, national debate\) to separate from it. And that is the real reason these politicians are provisionally imprisoned, waiting for trial.
1.9.3.2. Con: The charge of sedition is common in other democracies.
1.9.4. Con: It is unclear if the actions of the Spanish government were per se undemocratic.
1.9.4.1. Con: Inventing violence in order to jail peaceful oposition is usually undemocratic
1.9.4.1.1. Pro: The defense of Clara Ponsati former education minister of Catalonia. Now exiled in Scotland where she teaches in Saint Andrew's University: [thenational.scot](http://www.thenational.scot/news/16156324.The_arguments_that_could_defeat_Clara_Ponsati_extradition_bid/?ref=ar)
1.9.4.1.2. Pro: The German court in charge of the extradiction of Mr Carles Puigdemont [denies](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/05/world/europe/puigdemont-extradite-germany-spain.html) claims of rebellion and violence.
1.9.4.1.3. Pro: Jordi Turull was [jailed](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2018/mar/23/jordi-turull-latest-candidate-catalan-presidency-appear-court-spain) after presenting himself as a candidate to the presidency.
1.9.4.1.4. Pro: Jordi Sanchez was [not allowed](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2018/mar/09/catalan-leader-jordi-sanchez-cannot-leave-jail-to-attend-debate-court-rules) to attend at the parliamentary debate in which he was meant to become the 131st president of Catalonia.
1.9.4.1.4.1. Pro: Juan Carlos Yoldi was allowed to attend at the basque [parliamentary](https://www.elindependiente.com/politica/2017/12/09/juan-carlos-yoldi-preso-eta-lehendakari/) debate as a candidate to president of the region. And he was accused of belonging to ETA, a terrorist group which had attacked the basque railway.
1.9.4.1.5. Pro: The judge Pablo Llarena [prossecutes](https://cronicaglobal.elespanol.com/uploads/s1/21/02/87/0/auto-procesamiento-llarena-proces.pdf) 13 leaders of the Catalan independence movement for rebellion.
1.9.4.1.6. Con: There is no evidence of the use of any invention by judge Pablo Llarena in order to apply preventive jail for all the currently jailed people involved in this unilateral and against the law Catalonian previous government actions, therefore it is not undemocratic.
1.9.5. Con: The EU supports the democratic principles practiced within each of their members. The Catalonia situation is not a democractic claim.
1.9.6. Con: Spain supports democratic principles.
1.9.7. Pro: The suspension of an elected government is an attack on democracy in Europe.
1.9.7.1. Con: Approve a law and call a referundum for three weeks after it's the least democratic act of people pretending to claim equal treatment and democracy.
1.9.7.2. Pro: Spain has dropped close to a "[flawed democracy](http://pages.eiu.com/rs/753-RIQ-438/images/Democracy_Index_2017.pdf?mkt_tok=eyJpIjoiWkRKbU1HWmxNVEUwTW1FdyIsInQiOiJPdlltVFV0blFRQzZNVERCZHhVeitZRElmUGplOHh3NWs1d2wzVzdRS1JvNU1kVmUxQVRESU9LbEVSOVwvR1F4aG1PV1NlS0ZZcng4NzBcLzVNZ09JOUxiZU5TTEVPekVHayttOTRqQkQ5TkNzWGNtRlowQTZ0UzlUK0pDdm9PVGlcLyJ9)" after 1st of October referendum. The EU should be worried about this development in one of its biggest member countries.
1.9.7.2.1. Con: The "Democracy Index" by The Economist puts Spain within the "full democracy" range and well ahead of countries like Japan, US,  Italy, Portugal, France or Belgium.
1.9.7.2.2. Pro: According to the Index, major score declines in Western Europe were recorded by Malta \(-0.24\), Spain \(-0.22\), 
Turkey, \(-0.16\) and France \(-0.12\).
1.9.7.2.3. Pro: At a score of 8.08, Spain "remains just above the threshold for full democracies". The [report](http://pages.eiu.com/rs/753-RIQ-438/images/Democracy_Index_2017.pdf?mkt_tok=eyJpIjoiWkRKbU1HWmxNVEUwTW1FdyIsInQiOiJPdlltVFV0blFRQzZNVERCZHhVeitZRElmUGplOHh3NWs1d2wzVzdRS1JvNU1kVmUxQVRESU9LbEVSOVwvR1F4aG1PV1NlS0ZZcng4NzBcLzVNZ09JOUxiZU5TTEVPekVHayttOTRqQkQ5TkNzWGNtRlowQTZ0UzlUK0pDdm9PVGlcLyJ9) also concludes that "the national government’s attempt to stop by force Catalonia’s illegal referendum on independence on October 1st and its repressive treatment of pro-independence politicians have put it at risk of becoming a 'flawed democracy'".
1.9.7.2.3.1. Con: Democracies have the right to defend themselves so long it is done by legal means. Spain is recognized as a full democracy not just by The Economist Index, but by the vast majority of governments and supra-national entities in the world.
1.9.7.2.3.2. Con: Spain has a better rating today than it had in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014.
1.9.7.3. Con: That may not be the case when an elected government is organising a referendum that [contravenes](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/catalonia-catalan-independence-referendum-spain-constitutional-court-void-a8004941.html) Spanish law.
1.9.7.3.1. Con: Although a binding referendum is not possible, the Spanish Constitution allows the possibility of a non-binding referendum \([Article 92](http://idpbarcelona.net/docs/blog/legality_referendum.pdf)\). Therefore, with political will and some modifications to the organic law that develops the article, the referendum could made within the legal framework.
1.9.7.3.1.1. Con: Political will has so far been non-existent. Consecutive Spanish governments have been reluctant to modify the legal framework for a Catalan referendum. The Catalan people have no assurances or even a remote opportunity for dialogue.
1.9.7.4. Pro: The Spanish government has refused dialogue with the Catalan government. When avenues of dialogue are shut, the only option remaining is disobedience.
1.9.7.4.1. Con: Disobedience is only acceptable when its purpose is a higher moral value. Indedence is merely a political option, ergo disobedience is not acceptable.
1.9.7.4.1.1. Con: The disobedience was for making a self-determination referendum \(1-O\), since the self-determination is recognissed as a right in the in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights it has a higher moral value than the Spanish Constitution and the disobedience is acceptable.
1.9.7.4.2. Con: This claim may not be true as a Puigdemont [imitator](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g0ut91Z5p_4) was able to call President Rajoy in Catalan Ràdio Flaixbac surprisingly easily and he was offered serveral options to meet.
1.9.7.4.3. Con: It is true that the PP governemnt could have handled things better. However, it is also true that no governing party in their sane mind would negotiate the independence of a part of their sovereign territory.
1.9.7.5. Con: The election results after suspending the autonomy through the application of 155 show the overall Secessionist majority to have been reduced by two seats and saw the main anti-independence party, Citizens \(Cs\) as the largest in the Catalan Parliament. This outcome would lead to believe that Catalans did not see the suspension as an attack since the results, all considered, punished secessionist parties.[en.m.wikipedia.org](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catalan_regional_election,_2017)
1.9.7.6. Con: The intervention of the autonomy of Catalonia is a mechanism of the Spanish constitution to resorte legality, and allow in this case new elections under a fair and secure procedure to guarantee results, so it is not an attack on democracy it enables it.
1.9.7.6.1. Con: The fundamentals of democracy and the Spanish constitution are not necessarily the same thing. The 1978 Constitution has been a key part of the debate during the Catalan crisis, especially with elements such as Article 155 that order the dissolution of the Catalan government despite it being elected by the Catalan people.
1.9.7.6.2. Con: That mechanism \(the Article 155\) should be an exceptional and temporal measure that assures the constitutional order is upheld. Its application should be only inscribed in stopping the Transitory Laws that the Constitutional Tribunal forbids, yet it is not a carte blanche to intervene whichever Catalan institution, as the Popular Party seems to interpret it. That at will application is in fact an attack to democracy and the Constitution itself.
1.9.7.6.2.1. Con: The Spanish government have done just that, they have resorted to article 155 as a temporary measure with a very clear purpose: return Catalonia to legality, no laws have been sanctioned and no fundamental changes have been done during the rule of the central government.
1.9.7.6.3. Pro: Article 155 is only being imposed in order to trigger fresh regional elections, not to suspend Catalan autonomy indefinitely. If the residents of Catalonia wish to elect a government that will continue to attempt to negotiate independence then they have the freedom to do so, under a fair and proportional electoral system.
1.9.7.6.3.1. Con: Even though Carles Puigdemont won the elections, he hasn't been able to be president and neither have been his candidates, Jordi Sànchez, Jordi Turull and Joaquim Forn from his parliamentary group.
1.9.7.7. Con: Article 155 was imposed because Catalan leaders crossed the legality line and declared independence, not because the government "didn't like" separatists in power, as they've been in power almost every since Spain transitioned into a democracy.
1.9.7.7.1. Pro: There were actually more [votes](https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2017/dec/21/catalonia-voters-results-regional-election-spain-live) for parties against independence than for, but in the parliament, parties for independece got more seats.
1.9.7.7.1.1. Con: That is not accurate. PP, PSC and C's \(parties against independence that support article 155\) achieved [1,889,176](http://www.lavanguardia.com/elecciones/elecciones-catalanas-2017/) votes while JxCAT, ERC and CUP \(parties pro independence and against 155\) achieved.[2,063,361](http://www.lavanguardia.com/elecciones/elecciones-catalanas-2017/). CatComú, that are against article 155 and in favor of a referendum, achieved 323,695 votes and some of their voters are pro [independece](http://cadenaser.com/ser/2017/12/04/politica/1512376596_823523.html) and some are not.
1.9.8. Con: The EU is not a supporter or defender of liberal democracy so intervening in support of either side would only make it worse.
1.10. Pro: The European Union must defend citizens and not Member State governments.
1.10.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.3.
1.10.2. Pro: Catalans, for example, find themselves turning for aid to other countries when their government uses archaic laws such as sedition and rebellion to imprison them, and when doubts are raised about the impartiality of the courts. In the words of the head of Catalan separatist Clara Ponsati's legal team, regarding the status of a Spanish court, "[Has it been hand-picked by a government who says ‘we have hand-picked you and this is what you are going to do?'](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-spain-politics-catalonia-ponsati/scotland-should-put-spanish-judiciary-on-trial-in-catalan-case-lawyer-idUSKCN1HC1C8)" No such qualms are raised in Spain.
1.10.3. Con: The only way to defend the citizens' rights regardless of their origin, identity or political affiliation, is defending the Rule of Law.
1.10.4. Pro: In many aspects it's a simple fact of defending basic human rights. People can't be imprisoned just for ideas. The political discussion has to be deep and real to the end.
1.10.4.1. Con: People were not imprisoned by their ideas. There are plenty of people with the same ideas than the ones that were put in jail out on the streets, completely free and innocent.
1.11. Con: Catalans \(and the rest of Spain\) are pro EU already, so it seems Catalans are happy with the current support the EU gives.
1.11.1. Con: No voting has asked whether Catalans are pro EU or happy with the current support or not.
1.12. Pro: The EU's non-interventionist stance could fuel further Euroscepticism across Europe.
1.12.1. Pro: The far right is taking advantage of the EU's inactivity to gain legitimacy and credibility.
1.12.1.1. Con: The key is to determine whether it would be legal, fair and ethical for the EU to intervene, not whether doing it would benefit or undermine the far right, which would probably criticise the EU whichever stance it took.
1.12.1.1.1. Con: It's not that hard to determine this things when a state has been reprimanded for not investigating [torture](http://www.argia.eus/albistea/echr-condemns-spain-for-not-investigating-torture-aztnugal).
1.12.1.2. Con: More right wing support cannot is not a bad thing per se. Some people prefer far right and they see that as beneficial. If anything, this proves the opposite as EU members can also be more to the right than to the left and still be legitimate, credible and EU members.
1.12.1.3. Con: This is not only an argument made by the far right. The lack of democratic legitimacy of the EU as a notion has support from across the political spectrum
1.12.1.3.1. Con: The question is not concerning democratic legitimacy but the non-intervention of the EU as a mediator. Right wing and far right parties are using EU inactivity as a weapon to gain popularity. The [Economist](https://www.economist.com/news/europe/21730163-embracing-catalonia-holds-no-appeal-europes-leaders-eu-will-not-help-catalan) \(12/10\) "What support the Catalans have found comes from friends they would rather avoid: populists like Nigel Farage and Geert Wilders".
1.12.1.3.1.1. Con: The Scottish government strongly supports the Catalan independence movement and is one of the most liberal governments in Europe.
1.12.1.4. Con: The far right has a valid point in questioning the undemocratic nature of the EU and offering a viable alternative.
1.12.1.5. Con: The far right has ulterior motives in supporting the independence movement: they support anything that is seen as weakening the EU. They would have criticized the EU either way.
1.12.2. Con: Most of the euroscepticism is caused by perceived legislative overreach on the part of the EU. Intervening in Spain's internal affairs would only strengthen euroscepticism.
1.12.2.1. Con: Dealing with human rights violations can never be legislative overreach. Spain must follow [what it ratifies according to Article 96.1](http://www.congreso.es/consti/constitucion/indice/titulos/articulos.jsp?ini=93&fin=96&tipo=2), no more no less. The UN Charter, concerning the self-determination right, says clearly that ["Every State has the duty to promote, through joint and separate action, realization of the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples"](http://www.un-documents.net/a25r2625.htm)
1.12.2.1.1. Pro: Avoiding a referendum to take place no matter its result is a human rights violation. Self-determination does not imply the creation of an independent state as UN Charter also says ["The establishment of a sovereign and independent State, the free association or integration with an independent State or the emergence into any other political status freely determined by a people constitute modes of implementing the right of self-determination by that people."](http://www.un-documents.net/a25r2625.htm)
1.12.2.1.1.1. Con: That same UN Charter 2625 states the following: “Convinced in consequence that any attempt aimed at the partial or total disruption of the national unity and territorial integrity of a State or country or at its political independence is incompatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter“.
1.12.2.1.1.2. Con: Avoiding the Referendum is not a human rights violations. Catalans do vote in their regional and national Spanish elections, just like other regions.
1.12.2.1.1.3. Con: That charter was intended for post-colonial nations, Catalonia is not one.
1.12.2.1.2. Con: There has been no human right violations in Spain.
1.12.2.2. Pro: Brexit was also fueled by a perceived EU legislative overreach.
1.13. Pro: The Catalan people deserve to be heard and acknowledged.
1.13.1. Con: The current Catalan goverment is going against its own people's autonomy as by almost all accounts about more than half the population is opposed to the independance. Autonomy should be valued, but defending the current goverment does not imply defending autonomy, and the Spanish Goverment has agreed to resume's Catalonia's independance after a new election.
1.13.1.1. Con: It is not clear that Spain revokes the 155 after the election of a new government if it is independentist. [www.publico.es](http://www.publico.es/politica/rajoy-amenaza-volver-aplicar-155.html)
1.13.1.2. Con: It is not true that more than half of the population is against independece. resultados.elpais.com
Looking at the political parties voted, around a 39% of the voters are against it, 48% in favor and a 10% are voting a political party that is not positioned against or in favor of independence.
1.13.2. Con: For this purpose, there are the autonomic elections \(the only legal ones to date\).
1.13.2.1. Con: Autonomic elections alone are not satisfactory to make a legitimate claim for independence.
1.13.2.1.1. Con: Yes they are. Parties promoting independence \(or federalism, or centralism\) can be supported or rejected by citizens. This is, in the long term, the best way of measuring how people feel about the question and how important it is to them.
1.13.3. Con: The “Catalan people” is not one homogeneous body, even under current mass-propaganda pro-independence supporters represent about 50% of the citizenry.
1.13.3.1. Con: There may be no homogeneity or consensus on the independence question, however the legal constituents of the Generalitat of Catalunya are the Catalan people. The issue at hand is that these citizens have been denied their right to vote, even in a symbolic capacity. They may represent the 50% of the population, however they deserve to be heard and acknowledged.
1.13.3.1.1. Con: Catalans have voted on multiple elections over the past few years, they have not been denied to vote. A Referendum is out of the scope of Catalonia’s regional mandate.
1.13.3.2. Con: Polls suggest that [85% of Catalans](http://www.catalannews.com/politics/item/85-of-catalans-in-favour-of-calling-a-referendum-according-to-latest-poll) would like to vote on an independence referendum,
1.13.3.2.1. Con: The credibility of that poll is in question. It does not show the number of responses. Moreover it shows that there is support to do it within Spain’s constitutional framework.
1.13.4. Pro: Spain has misused the country's institutions, such as the police forces or the law courts, in a biased way. So these institutions have been rendered useless to help solve the issue democratically. Therefore, the topic needs to be escalated.
1.13.5. Con: Catalan people has democratically elected representatives in the Catalonian Parliament \(only half of them supported the independence declaration\) in the Spanish Parliament and in the European Parliament.
All these democratically elected representatives are well heard and acknowledged.
1.13.6. Con: It would, indeed be in the EU's best interest that Catalans be heard and acknowledged if Spain was a tyranny \(for example, a dictatorship, fascist, communist, neither, or both\). However, Spain is a democracy where everyone can speak and be heard.
1.13.6.1. Con: Many artists are going to face prison due to the content of their lyrics, clearly agaisnt the current government.
[www.eldiario.es](https://www.eldiario.es/politica/Condenados-raperos-Insurgencia-enaltecimiento-terrorismo_0_715328897.html)
1.13.6.1.1. Con: That is not many.
1.13.6.1.1.1. Con: Even if it's one artist, in a European democracy, the imprisonment on the grounds of 'defamation' against the monarchy is shocking with potential long term implications.
1.13.6.1.1.1.1. Con: Other European governments abide by the same rules. It hardly seems to be a special case on he Spanish legislation.
1.13.6.2. Con: It is well known that most of the current governors of Spain are sons of or linked to sons of governors during Franco dictatorship. The so called democratic transition was fake.
[www.eldiario.es](https://www.eldiario.es/politica/Juan-Carlos-Fundacion-Francisco-Franco_0_746125522.html)
1.13.6.2.1. Con: The Spanish government body is comprised of hundreds of thousands of people.
1.13.6.3. Pro: It would seem that people in Spain can indeed vote and express their opinions freely.
1.14. Con: The EU must uphold the legal order. The Spanish Constitution is part of the European body of law.
1.14.1. Con: [Self-determination](http://www.humanlaw.org/determination.html) is a concept born from the [Convention of Geneva](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geneva_Conventions). It's applicable for war scenarios and political violence type of oppression. People tend to push it to [John Rawl](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Theory_of_Justice)s's theories.
1.14.1.1. Con: This particular article about self-determination was included in the lights of the de-colonization of African and Asian colonies, even though it was not explicit. Catalonia is not as oppressed as colonies were, nor as exploited. It is in the West's best interest to keep Catalonia and the rest of Spain and the rest of Europe united.
1.14.1.1.1. Pro: Catalonia is neither oppresed nor exploited in any way. It has a extremely high degree of self-goverment and is a very wealthy region.
1.14.2. Pro: It is not unto the EU to redraw national boundaries
1.14.2.1. Pro: In fact, the Eu as a union of countries is mandated to protect each country's borders.
1.14.2.2. Con: Intervention would not be to impose Catalan independence from Europe, but to make it so that the Catalan nation can decide democratically and apply the result without fear of violent reprimand.
1.14.3. Con: Legality in a democratic country is an entity that can only exist when created by the Democracy itself \(through the Parliament or other representative chambers\). Therefore, democracy is the pillar to legality and should always prevail.
1.14.4. Con: The Spanish Constitution is in conflict with International Law. It states that Spain as defined at present is "indivisible", and that acts to divide it are "illegal". However the international declaration of human rights asserts people's right to decisions re  "self-determination".
1.14.4.1. Pro: International Law must always prevail over regional legislations and therefore the Catalan people should be able to democratically vote exercising the self-determination right.
1.14.5. Con: The treaty of Lisbon which forms the basis of the EU only recognises the nation states which were defined at the time of the treaty.  However, these states are made up of nations of people, who, under international law such as the declaration of human rights, have a recognised right to decide re self-determination.  This ambiguity or conflict is too big to ignore.
1.15. Con: The European Union is not an impartial third-party.
1.15.1. Pro: The EU has interests to protect and having one of it members, Spain, at odds would be counterproductive.
1.15.2. Con: No one is an impartial third-party. Every country is faced with their own local group in a similar situation, as borders will always keep changing, moving, evolving. Therefore, any third party will be partial. That does not mean there should not be a third party considering these two parties are at an unequal power position, where one is subject to the other's laws.
1.16. Con: Interventionism is a form of paternalism. Spain and Catalonia should solve their differences together.
1.16.1. Pro: There is a solution that does not require EU intervention and would please both sides. The unionist majority regions of Catalonia would form a new autonomy within Spain \(Tabarnia\), while the pro-independence majority regions would conform the Catalonian Republic. 100k signatures in 3 days [www.change.org](http://www.change.org/p/grupo-parlamentario-popular-en-el-congreso-tabarnia-la-nueva-comunidad-aut%C3%B3noma)
1.16.2. Pro: EU has no legal power to do anything in the internal matter of one of the union's state
1.16.3. Con: Paternalism is not bad if Spain is breaking human rights and international law. One of EU's aims is to enforce protection of all its citizens' rights.
1.16.4. Pro: The head of the EU Parliament Antonio Tajani has said that  any action against a member state’s constitution is an action against the legal framework of the EU.

For the European Commission, it is a question of internal politics. And an independent Catalonia would be outside the EU.
1.16.5. Con: Spain and Catalonia may require intervention to solve their differences.
1.16.6. Con: Spain and Catalonia need third party mediation as Spain it's not willing to listen to a reason that 2.000.000 people of their country are asking for.
1.16.6.1. Con: And the Catalan government would not take heed of the opinion of 40 million Spaniards who do not wish to see their country split up.
1.16.6.2. Con: The Catalan government is unwilling to listen to the other two million Catalans against independence either.
1.16.6.3. Pro: It's always best to ask for mediation, specially when Catalonia and Spain are integrated into EU. Before and after any separation situation of both Spain and/or Catalonia.
1.17. Con: A political intervention by the EU would be viewed as an imposition against the Constitution by the Spanish government.
1.17.1. Con: [Paying debt before health and education](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2011/aug/26/spain-constitutional-cap-deficit) wasn't seen as an imposition. Yet they reformed the constitution falling to external pressure, bailout threat more than anything.
1.17.2. Pro: Involvement in internal affairs of a country is never a good idea.
1.17.3. Pro: Catalonia has repeatedly broken Spain's highest law \(Spanish Costitution\). If EU supports Catalonia's claims, it would mean denying the validity of the Spanish Constitution.
1.17.4. Con: As an international body, the EU has the responsibility to seek the application of international law - which protects the right to self-determinism. Infringements of international law supersede domestic law.
1.17.4.1. Con: -> See 1.14.1.1.
1.17.4.2. Con: If the EU is responsible to protect rights to self-determination, then not defending Catalan's autonomy would be counterintuitive, as they have self-determined their intention for autonomy.
1.17.5. Pro: The EU has an obligation to enforce the Constitution of Spain, above and foremost, because the Constitution of Spain is part of EU law.
1.17.5.1. Con: The first commitment of the EU law is to ensure the fundamental human rights of its citizens. National constitutions, like Spain's, are valid in so far as their laws serve to protect and enact them. National integrity \(or unity\) is not a fundamental human right, and therefore its defense must strictly respect freedom of thought and expression, and the right of public assembly. In its attempt to protect national unity, Spain did not respect these: Spain constitution is in conflict with EU law.
1.18. Con: The EU is too preoccupied by the Brexit talks to devote valuable attention to any form of mediation.
1.18.1. Con: Not paying attention to the Catalan issue, may trigger the risk of a Catalanexit. The EU should work in prevention, instead of dealing with the consequences afterward.
1.18.2. Con: The EU is a large organisation, they could at least send a mid-level diplomat to facilitate future talks.
1.18.2.1. Con: The efforts of a mid-level diplomat might not be sufficient to mediate between a complex issue such as this. The EU must assemble a task force that will facilitate dialogue between EU institutions, Madrid and the Generalitat of Catalunya.
1.18.2.1.1. Pro: The solution is as easy as allowing a referendum on independence. Spain has changed its Constitution very fast in the past for other matters. The law is not a problem, the lack of will to use democratic solutions is.
1.18.3. Con: The issues around Scottish independence, the Scottish government's support for Catalan's right to self determination, and its anti-Brexit stance means that the Catalan situation is relevant to the Brexit discussion and one that they will need to consider as part of the negotiation rubric.
1.18.4. Con: Brexit is a far greater issue for the UK than it is for the EU. Although it's provoked much discussion about the future of the Union, it isn't tying up nearly as great a proportion of the EU's resources as it is the UK's.
1.18.5. Con: The EU have already held a debate on the Catalan question, and there are Catalan and Spanish MEPs in Brussels, who have a vested interest in the debate.  The organisation is more than big enough to think of Brexit, and Catalonia, at the same time.