Discussion Title: Should Society Force Individuals to be Free?

1. Should society force individuals to be free?
1.1. Con: The original thesis contradicts itself: society cannot force anything, individuals can force others to do certain things, and no individual can force you to be free and the mere existence of the idea of disagreement \(As in, "I don't want to be free"\) results in freedom.
1.1.1. Pro: If someone is forced to be free, they are not truly free.
1.1.2. Pro: Freedom is something that comes from the individual, therefore society can not change anyone's relation with self freedom.
1.2. Pro: Imposing unfreedom on all people in a society costs too much money. Societies that try it go broke within a couple of generations.
1.2.1. Con: There is no proof or historical precedent of this.
1.3. Pro: Autonomy and freedom are the natural constraints of human life.
1.3.1. Con: Then it is not possible to force people to be free.
1.4. Con: Society should promote and help citizens to be free. But never force.
1.5. Con: Society should not care about individual freedom, therefore it cannot force them to become free.
1.6. Pro: Freedom is the best way to happiness.
1.6.1. Con: Freedom does not equate to happiness. Our happiness is defined by our life choices, the fact we are free to make the wrong ones does not make us happy.
1.7. Pro: If society does not force individuals to be free, most of them will not try to become free.
1.7.1. Con: People can't try to become free if they are not already free, by definition.
1.7.2. Con: That, or they're already free.
1.8. Con: Freedom is an individual choice, and society should not care about that.
1.9. Con: Society is better off if the individual isn't free, e.g. by limiting rights to bear arms.
1.9.1. Pro: If you understand freedom as being against the rules and regulations, society should definitely NOT enforce it. A system of rules is anti-freedom. We understand society as a collective of people governed by laws. If society started allowing each individual to choose their own laws, the society would lose its legitimacy as a stable system of control. The end result would be anarchy, which is, anyways, impossible to achieve, since there will always be groups of people that have rules in common.