Discussion Title: Should Criminal Justice Sentences be Exclusively Comprised of Community Time and Fines?

1. A sentence should be a combination of time and money \(e.g. €100 + 10 hours of community service\) in the justice system.
1.1. Con: People like single parents are unable to free a lot of time and don't have much money to spare, so they are punished even harder.
1.2. Con: People who work hard \(day in, day out\) for just a small amount of money are punished even harder.
1.3. Con: Violent criminals would be within reach of the rest of us, and it would surely only be a matter of time until someone worked out how to beat ankle monitors, which would anyway be useless if the criminal doesn't care about being caught.
1.4. Con: This undermines the value of human life and property. No amount of community service and no amount of money is worth a human life.
1.5. Pro: Wealthy people who want to do a minimum of community sentence will make a good financial contribution to enhance the justice system.
1.5.1. Con: Punishing crime should not be profitable. If persecuting an individual has a net profit, this gives a state an impulse to persecute more people as an income source. This could lead to more innocent people being convicted.
1.5.2. Pro: Those criminals who would be able to do their service in parallel with a job would contribute to society \(beyond the service\) and to GDP.
1.6. Con: Community service will need extra time from officials to watch if it is done right.
1.7. Pro: People of all classes are punished more equally. People with more money have to sacrifice their precious time and people for whom time is less expensive, but their hard-earned money plays a major role, will also receive an appropriate punishment.
1.8. Pro: Linking money and time in a quadratic order \(if you want to do less community time, you'll have to pay much more fine; if you want to pay less, you'll have to to much more community time\) will make it possible to make the system slightly adjustable. A minimum of time and money should always be present though.
1.8.1. Pro: This would finally address the perpetual inconsistency of prison sentences; most seem ultimately unjust.
1.9. Pro: More community service will be provided, which is beneficial for others.
1.9.1. Pro: People who have no job or are not willing to work \(but do receive an unemployment allowance\) will also contribute to the system.
1.9.2. Pro: People with no job can come in contact with other people during community service and perhaps find a job.
1.9.3. Pro: This saves local councils money, and improves the communities where the offender has transgressed.