Discussion Title: Should Student Loans be Written Off?

1. Student Loans Should Be Written Off.
1.1. Con: It would make more sense to just make school cheaper, with state's incentives, so students don't require loans in the first place.
1.2. Con: Unless writing off debt is coupled with harder curriculums, there would be an influx in college graduates.  Bachelors degrees would lose value and force graduates to earn Masters degrees in order to stay competitive in work force. We would have a mass of graduates rather than people learning real trades that support society. College is great, but there is nothing wrong with being a plumber making $2,000 a week.
1.3. Con: Unless combined with tuition cuts to prevent future students from borrowing, this would amount to a windfall for one generation only.
1.4. Pro: Other governing bodies like banks have gotten "bailouts" as they are a fundamental element of driving the economy; students should have their loans written off on the same basis.
1.4.1. Pro: Higher education spurs the innovations in our economy. New economic markets are linked to geographic areas with highly educated people. This connects the need for higher education - to the quality of life for citizens - as such a measured loan forgiveness program would make sense.
1.4.2. Con: Banks are there to manage the entire society, while students make up a comparably small percentage.
1.5. Con: Nobody would be able to absorb the debt the student accumulated while in school.
1.6. Pro: Education and access to resources is a human right, and so students should not be penalised.
1.6.1. Con: If a student does well enough in high school and on standardized tests, scholarships and other programs can cover a significant portion of tuition and books. Going to college for further education is not a right. If you can't make the grades to get scholarships, you probably won't make the grades to compete against the people that did. In this case, you would already be starting out your career at a disadvantage and would be better off learning a trade. College is not the answer for everyone.
1.6.2. Pro: In the current age we live in, where advanced qualifications are all but compulsory for any high-end job, it is vital that students are permitted the opportunity to access equally high-end education.
1.6.3. Pro: Education should be public.
1.7. Pro: Students can start off in the workforce without issues of overwhelming debt.
1.7.1. Con: Students should look at the job security, as well as the payout, of jobs in the field they are studying before taking on debt to learn about the subject. It is an irresponsible person that takes on debt to chase after a foolish venture.
1.7.2. Pro: This worked in previous years in the UK, when students did not have to pay fees. It is completely possible and massively beneficial to students.
1.7.3. Pro: It is already challenging for young adults to get on the property ladder, et cetera; existing debt is an unfair burden to add.