Discussion Title: Should Men Pay Child Support When Abortion is Legal?

1. Men should not be forced to pay child support if abortion is a woman's right.
1.1. Con: It would put the entire responsibility and burden of using birth control on the woman.
1.1.1. Con: Abortion also puts the responsibility and burden exclusively on the woman.
1.2. Pro: Abortion places the responsibility places the responsibility for the child's well-being solely in the woman's hands, not the man's.
1.3. Con: Child support can help ease the burden on the state and, by short extension, taxpayers.
1.3.1. Pro: If the child support funds are sufficient, a woman who would otherwise need to rely on government support \(such as TANF or SNAP\) to adequately provide for her child would no longer need to do so.
1.3.2. Pro: Child support may be the line in the sand preventing a child from becoming a warden of the state.
1.3.3. Con: Taxpayers may have to pay more, but this is still a fairer way of managing children born out of wedlock.
1.3.3.1. Con: It is not fairer to unnecessarily place the burden of supporting the child upon the general public when one of the people who helped create the child is capable of doing so instead.
1.4. Pro: It would prevent woman from using men for money.
1.4.1. Con: Single mums tend to have a significantly [lower income](https://singlemotherguide.com/single-mother-statistics/) than married mothers. Getting children out of wedlock is a very unsuccessful tactic to use men for money.
1.4.2. Con: The child support compulsion system generally provides little to no opportunity for abuse constituting "women using men for money."
1.5. Con: Abortion and the child maintenance debate are often two different things. Many pregnancies are planned and/or welcomed. Parents relationships do break down after the fact. Non-resident parents, regardless of gender, still have a responsibility of contributing towards the child they helped create.
1.6. Con: Men would not be responsible for their actions.
1.6.1. Con: A man should only be responsible for his own actions. The decision of what to do with a pregnancy is entirely the mother's choice, and therefore only she should be responsible for the outcome of that action.
1.6.1.1. Con: He played a part in conceiving the child. He is equally responsible for it, even if he doesn't want it. Most laws consider you responsible for your own actions, even if you never intended the outcome \(eg manslaughter\).
1.6.2. Con: A man can reasonably choose to have sex, but not to automatically become a father. Placing an onerous responsibility onto a relatively minor choice creates an overly repressive society.
1.6.2.1. Con: Using adequate protection is not a minor choice, nor repressive.
1.6.3. Pro: Creating a child takes two people. The consequences should be shared.
1.7. Con: The woman will bear the burden of raising the child and working at the same time.
1.7.1. Pro: This is an almost impossible situation, given the [high cost of childcare](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-42966047) in certain places worldwide.
1.8. Con: The child's future would be devastating.
1.8.1. Con: Not necessarily; depending on other state benefits \(which could be instated\) the child's future could be perfectly fine.
1.8.2. Con: If this occurs it is the mother's responsibility since she and she alone gets to choose whether or not the child is born.
1.8.3. Pro: The child may be insufficiently provided-for due to low available funds.
1.8.4. Pro: The child might become a warden of the state, which can detrimental impacts on that child.
1.9. Pro: It may reduce the number of out-of-wedlock children born.
1.9.1. Con: Men can produce more children out of wedlock now because they are sure they don't need to pay child support in case things go wrong.
1.9.2. Pro: If women know they cannot provide for a child, nor will have external support, they will be more inclined towards terminations.
1.9.2.1. Con: This could be seen as highly unethical.
1.10. Pro: It may increase the use of birth control.
1.10.1. Con: Men can be less careful out of wedlock now because they are sure they don't need to pay child support in case things go wrong.
1.10.2. Pro: This can only be seen as a good thing.