Discussion Title: Should Humans Tour Space?

1. Humans should not tour space.
1.1. Con: Space tourism helps advance science and technology on Earth.
1.1.1. Pro: Simulated weightlessness through [parabolic flight](http://www.esa.int/Our_Activities/Human_Spaceflight/Research/Parabolic_flights) are often short, lasting 20 seconds. Space tourism provides a longer period of time to [research micro-gravity exposure](https://theconversation.com/space-tourism-could-help-boost-science-and-health-research-heres-how-79812).
1.1.2. Pro: Space tourism allows for more subject to research and understand the mechanisms of conditions such as [osteoporosis](https://blogs.nasa.gov/ISS_Science_Blog/2013/10/22/top-space-station-research-results-countdown-nine-understanding-mechanisms-of-osteoporosis-and-new-drug-treatments/).
1.2. Con: As the world population increases, a way to find more space will become more pressing. That means leaving Earth to colonise other non-earth places in space.
1.2.1. Con: Overpopulation is mostly about resources. Since most planets of the Solar System are [desolate](https://isru.nasa.gov/SPACERESOURCES.html), colonizing them doesn't bring sufficient resources crucial to support growing human population.
1.3. Con: Technological progress is moving forward, thus we will be able to travel to space soon.
1.4. Pro: Space tourism might contaminate other planets.
1.4.1. Pro: Contamination from other planets may be brought back to Earth causing danger to those who have never engaged in space tourism.
1.5. Pro: Space tourism would create even more pollution.
1.6. Pro: Only rich people will have access to it.
1.6.1. Con: When The Americas were first discovered \(in modern times\) only the rich could have free access, but they took "poor" people as employees. Over time technology and people numbers changed and now average income people can experience the USA. The same will happen with space.
1.6.1.1. Con: Back in the day, Americans did not care about slave education and health but in this case it will be necessary for « poor » people to have degrees to work in space programs.
1.6.1.1.1. Con: A person does not need a degree to do washing, serve meals, clean rooms etc. If rich people want to go to space they will want someone to do their washing etc - which does not require a degree. Being rich does not require a degree.
1.7. Con: Space based industries such as asteroid mining have dramatic potential. More activity in space, of any sort, is progress toward this end.
1.8. Pro: Space tourism is a waste of time.
1.8.1. Con: There is no way of telling if it is a waste of time or not. It may have health benefits, it will almost certainly result in new scientific discoveries. People will decide individually if it is a worthwhile use, or waste, of time for them.
1.8.2. Pro: There are big challenges being faced on Earth. Time should be spent creating a solution here.
1.8.2.1. Con: We have enough people, resources, and time to work on our issues on Earth and explore other options as well.
1.9. Pro: There isn't a good way to regulate space tourism.
1.10. Pro: Space tourism is not profitable.
1.10.1. Con: You cannot put a price on what one deems a valuable experience, like seeing the Earth rise from the moon with your own eyes.
1.10.2. Pro: Most people won't be able to afford it.
1.10.2.1. Con: People will save up.
1.10.2.2. Con: Many new innovations aren't universally affordable, but become so over time. The same can happen for space tourism.
1.10.2.2.1. Pro: A NASA astronaut [predicts](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/news/affordable-space-tourism-in-10-years/) space tourism will be affordable in 10 years.
1.10.2.3. Con: Most people can't afford a yacht, and yet there are producers and buyers of yachts. Not everybody has to be able to afford space tourism for the venture to be profitable.
1.11. Con: Space tourism is new, and fascinates people. Therefore, it will attract many customers.
1.12. Pro: A space tourism program is too expensive.
1.12.1. Con: If is for tourism, this probably would be payed by private enterprises, not governments.
1.12.2. Con: If something is expensive or not is a relative statement.
1.13. Con: New industries will provide new jobs, so the economy will grow.
1.13.1. Pro: Advances in space exploration will inspire younger generations to pursue employment in the field of science.