Discussion Title: Should Children Have The Same Voting Rights as Adults?

1. Children should have the same voting rights as adults.
1.1. Pro: Minors have a principled right to suffrage, because all citizens do.
1.1.1. Pro: There is no legitimate way to create a bright line distinction between children and adults on the subject of suffrage.
1.1.1.1. Con: Rights are derivative of the fact that exercise can benefit oneself, so they are not legitimate if you are more likely to harm yourself than not. This is why seatbelt and statutory rape laws exist, even though sexuality is also expressive, just like voting. Thus, the argument that 18 is our best guess at the point where a person starts being more likely to make an educated vote, due to education or cognitive development, is a worthwhile brightline estimation.
1.1.1.1.1. Con: Bright line restrictions, by their very definition, cannot be estimated. If one intelligent 17 year old is being disenfranchised by the status quo, then it is unjust.
1.1.1.1.1.1. Con: They can, and we do so all the time in government. If we use this all-or-nothing logic, then we would never compromise any principle ever, and we would have a paralyzed and dysfunctional government. We make decisions of the authority of minors on a bright-line scale in the interest of the common good, which is why we don't allow them to do things like manage financial trusts. Voting is no different, and the bright line is justified.
1.1.1.1.2. Pro: Policies such as driving limitations require governments to set age-limits on certain activities merely to effectively determine who can and cannot meet the thresholds for doing them.
1.1.1.1.2.1. Con: The difference between driving laws and voting is that driving is a function with a specific goal in mind, that can be evaluated on efficacy. Because democracy is expressive, and a mechanism for voters to consent to rule and define their own preferences, it cannot be evaluated. This is why we have driving tests, but not voting tests.
1.1.1.1.2.2. Con: A citizen incapable of driving runs a high likelihood of causing harm to the self or others \(or simply property\). A citizen incapable of voting wouldn't vote, and any vote given by a citizen is by definition a correct vote. Regardless, no vote by a single citizen will cause harm to their self or others: all votes are mitigated by the will of others \(no one voter can cause a disaster\) and the indirect nature of electing representatives to make policy.
1.1.1.1.3. Con: Sexuality is not 'expressive' in the same way that voting is, because it requires two consenting adults. Statutory rape laws exist because adults with more power can easily coerce children with less power, causing lasting harm. It's hard to argue a child being coerced into a vote would cause lasting harm, because votes are mitigated by their indirect nature and by the votes of others. It is certainly not physical harm.
1.1.1.1.4. Con: The very concept of principled implies the ability to exercise them irrespective of  the subjective concept of "benefit."
1.1.1.1.4.1. Con: That is not the argument. Our whole side is that children should not have this "principled" right.
1.1.1.1.4.1.1. Con: Our argument is that merely by existing, they have the right to autonomy, and thus have the right to a mechanism for consenting to and limiting the state, since the state abridges their right to autonomy. The question of if they "should" have the right to autonomy is both irrelevant and trivially obvious.
1.1.1.1.5. Con: According to our argument, voting is not a positive right used to benefit oneself, it is a check on other negative rights violations designed to limit the State.
1.1.1.1.5.1. Con: Voting is used to represent one's interests in government, not limit the state. While it can be a limit on the state's power \(if the state did something that over ½ the population didn't want, they could vote in a new candidate\), it's core purpose is representation, not checking rights violations.
1.1.1.1.5.1.1. Con: Representation in a political system is designed to limit the state. If voting was a positive right used to initiate state violence against other citizens, then we would be okay with a tyranny of the majority.
1.1.1.1.6. Con: Seatbelts and statutory rape are not good analogies. Seatbelt laws are justified \(perhaps weakly\) by the fact that the state finances public health. Statutory rape laws are punishments for the adult, not the child, and they define private relationships,  not the citizen's relationship to the State.
1.1.1.1.6.1. Con: In this case, the state and the people of the state directly benefit from good governance decisions. When people make uneducated votes, they harm themselves and others around them.
1.1.1.1.6.1.1. Con: The state does not regulate any form of democratic choice apart from age of voter, so it's unclear why quality of democratic outcome is sufficient reason to abridge the right in only this circumstance.
1.1.1.1.6.1.2. Con: Democratic outcomes are subjective expressive events, so the fact that an outcome occurs democratically is itself reason to consider it good.
1.1.1.2. Pro: Children have the same rights to things like minimal well- being that adults have.
1.1.1.2.1. Con: -> See 1.1.1.1.
1.1.1.3. Pro: Human development is an inconsistent gradient, so any attempt at a bright-line will inevitably violate the rights of some people who ought to be allowed to vote. This is particularly true given that in many democracies, the age-limit is 18, which is extraordinarily high.
1.1.1.3.1. Con: -> See 1.1.1.1.
1.1.2. Pro: The principled right to vote exists for adults.
1.1.2.1. Pro: The only way to opt into these rights violations, and the only way to check them, is through the democratic process by which citizens are able to decide how the government acts and consent to rule.
1.1.2.2. Pro: The State has the ability to abridge those rights via its monopoly on violence. It regularly imprisons, appropriates property, and even kills citizens.
1.1.2.3. Pro: Human beings have fundamental rights that ought never be abridged, such as life, minimal well-being, and autonomy.
1.1.2.4. Con: This is true, but this premise does not directly lead to the conclusion that children should have the same voting rights.
1.2. Pro: We're born lacking most of the abilities we'll have in the prime of our lives & as we age those abilities are gained & lost at different rates for different people, with old age often but not always including such debilitating conditions as depression, dementia, cancer, diabetes, arthritis, osteoporosis, heart disease, influenza, pneumonia, Alzheimer's Disease, respiratory diseases, et cetera, and there's nothing better about discriminating against the young than discriminating against the old.
1.3. Pro: As soon as children can grasp and forecast future impacts of their present choices, it is legitimate to think about including them in the decision-making process. In other words, children starting \(+/-\) 12 yo should be eligible to vote.
1.4. Con: Practically speaking, allowing people of all ages to vote would require the institution of some sort of competency test, and these have historically been used to suppress unwanted demographics from voting.
1.4.1. Con: No competency test is required of adults; it remains to be shown why it would be required of children. Illiterate, uneducated, disabled, and otherwise impaired adults are not denied on this basis. Why would it be required, 'practically speaking'?
1.5. Pro: Persons under 18 are bound by the decisions of the government and so they should be allowed a voice in that government.
1.5.1. Con: "Decisions of the government" are by extension decisions of the public, including universally agreed upon ideas like children and preteens not yet mentally ready to fully participate in areas like public voting, employment, or taxation.
1.5.1.1. Con: This argument is the same that was used to suggest slaves and African Americans and women couldn't vote: the voting public didn't think they possessed the capacity. Yet, the public included these disenfranchised groups, as children are currently part of the public now but prevented from having a say in decisions that affect them and their futures directly.
1.5.2. Con: Persons under 18 are not mentally and emotionally developed enough to make some decisions. They are also more easily manipulated than they would be at a more developed level.
1.6. Con: Children do not contribute to the society as adults do, thus they do not get a vote \(yet\).
1.6.1. Con: Yes but children are practically the future and they are the part of the population that would be more affected by the voting result
1.6.2. Con: Many 'children' below the current voting age do work, pay taxes, and/or contribute in other manners \(volunteering, teaching, etc.\), and do so to a greater degree than some eligible adults. Therefore, to deny children the vote for this reason is illogical.
1.6.3. Pro: Children can't legally drink or buy cigarettes or get a tattoo, but we can expect them to make a permanent decision that has far-reaching consequences about where our country goes?
1.6.4. Pro: If children are excluded in most criminal codes, why are they granted the right to vote? Children are easily manipulated, they might cast their vote on someone just because that person is nice. Also, granting children right to vote means they are exposed to the dark side of the life, or just give their parents the 2nd vote
1.7. Con: Children can easily be manipulated since they haven't yet fully developed their critical thinking and they haven't had a proper political 'education' therefore they will be seen as easy votes and they will be used for specific purposes of politics.
1.7.1. Con: Adults are not held to a standard of education that must be met before they can vote. An adult, no matter how unintelligent nor how ignorant of candidates, policies, history, or any other matter is allowed to vote, so suggesting that children should be denied the vote because they lack these things is inconsistent, illogical and/or hypocritical.
1.7.1.1. Con: It’s not just about intelligence and education. Children have quite literally experienced less, and have a drastically less formed framework for political climate, morals, basic cause and effect etc. This is neurologically proven. So it isn’t just that they have a bad mindset or qualification, it’s that they have less of a mindset to consider things with.
1.7.2. Pro: Children tend to think/believe what their parents do. Allowing children to vote gives an unfair advantage to the opinions of people with children over the opinions of people without children
1.7.3. Pro: Children are swayed everyday by simplistic commercialism, with bright lights and happy voices on television. This shows a demonstrable lack of intellectual discernment that the media and businesses are very aware of.
1.8. Pro: Minor suffrage would improve democratic outcomes with better policy and politicians.
1.8.1. Pro: Children are more liberal, on aggregate. This is good because it correlates to less austerity, higher aggregate demand, less military over-expansion, and more protections for minority groups.
1.8.1.1. Con: While more children are liberal, this means that the liberal teenagers will be radical progressives, whereas the conservative-leaning ones will moderates. This means the contenders that exit primary elections on the left will be more radical \(such as Bernie Sanders in the United States, as opposed to Hillary Clinton\), and the conservative candidates will be more moderate. Radicalizing the left and moderating the right is a sure formula for more conservative presidents and senators.
1.8.1.1.1. Con: While this point may have merit when assessing short-term election of presidential and prime ministerial candidates, it doesn't matter in the long-run. This is because two-party democratic systems naturally gravitate toward positions which just barely include the median voter. If the median voter shifts leftward, conservative parties will also shift to the left.
1.8.1.1.1.1. Con: While children are usually more liberal than adults, they tend to become more conservative over time, so the median voter probably won't meaningfully shift. Additionally, allowing conservative control over important ideology-shaping institutions like education and media prevents any long-term effects and will likely make future constituents more conservative.
1.8.1.1.1.1.1. Con: This contradicts other arguments given and the fact that voters don't become conservative because of voting, they become conservative with age.
1.8.1.1.2. Con: Local and districted national legislators are much more significant to political outcomes than presidents and prime ministers, so the fact that most parties support one candidate in each district in these types of elections reduces the risk of harm from a primary-esque process.
1.8.1.1.2.1. Con: National primaries not only influence national elections, but local ones as well. By having radical left national party leaders, the party's agenda gets pushed further left, which encourages more radical left candidates to run in local elections. These candidates will probably lose the moderates and leave the local districts to conservative parties.
1.8.1.1.3. Con: Corbyn's near-win and Clinton's loss prove that moderate candidates are not actually more likely to win national elections.
1.8.1.1.3.1. Pro: Brexit and Trump were examples of the right being able to exploit similar levels of disenchantment in the US and the UK with social democratic neoliberalism. There are many reasons a socialist would vote for Brexit, but no reason why a right-winger would vote for Corbyn's Labour. This could mean the effect is not unique to the UK.
1.8.1.1.3.2. Con: Those elections are exceptions to the rule. There's a reason we considered those results so surprising. Both establishment candidates in those elections had campaign and image problems that contributed to their downfall. If radicals from both sides of the aisle had run, we would have seen blowout wins for Corbyn and Trump. Similarly, if moderates had run on both sides, we probably would have seen wins for Clinton and May.
1.8.1.1.3.2.1. Con: Moderates all have image problems because they lack clear ideologies or passions. Exciting a voting base is more effective than pandering weakly to the middle.
1.8.2. Pro: Minor suffrage increases representation for marginalized groups, because in most democracies, [lower-class](https://www.statista.com/statistics/241530/birth-rate-by-family-income-in-the-us/) and [immigrant-associated demographic population growth](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2016/07/19/5-facts-about-the-muslim-population-in-europe/) is [above average](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Income_and_fertility#/media/File:TFR_vs_PPP_2015.png). This is crucially important because unless children are provided voting rights, these groups are not receiving a due portion of votes. If a law affects the children of a minority group, now or in the future, that group should be able to voice their opinion on it in a proportionate way.
1.8.2.1. Con: While this would artificially increase the amount of eligible voting minorities, because those minorities are disadvantaged and would not be able to take time off from work to vote/would otherwise be excluded because of voter suppression, the actual impact of this hurts minorities in terms of % of the population's votes.
1.8.2.1.1. Con: This policy cannot have that effect, because it does not change existing laws that cause voter suppression.
1.8.3. Pro: Child votes helps solve for the short-sighted bias of democracy. This exists because political terms are temporally limited, so politicians have an incentive to improve short-term welfare at the expense of long-term welfare. This materializes in environmental, education, and budgetary policy.
1.8.3.1. Pro: Children have longer-term incentives than adults. This is proven through their preference for political philosophies such as environmentalism and right-wing libertarianism.
1.8.3.1.1. Con: While children should technically have those incentives, they do not act on them, often opting for short-term, flashy solutions that are not always the best. In addition, most children are not educated extensively on these issues, and do not have the requisite knowledge to make good decisions on these issues.
1.8.3.2. Pro: Long-term policies are important because stopping global warming may save humanity, and education investment has the positive externality of improved human capital growth.
1.8.3.3. Con: While children have longer-term incentives, they have shorter-term decision-making. This will lead them to vote for candidates with unrealistic short-term promises rather than long-run policies that are more beneficial.
1.8.3.3.1. Con: If there are reasons to think kids would either shorter or longer-term voting strategies, prefer the warranting that it will be longer, because young people empirically do vote more frequently for global warming and fiscal sustainability \(as noted in the point about American green and libertarian parties\).
1.8.3.3.1.1. Con: There is a key distinction between current young voters over the age of 18 and literal children. Young children are impulsive, and do not have the education or control to do a rational calculus and prefer long-term strategies like many younger adults do.
1.8.3.3.1.1.1. Con: Even young teenagers follow the party trends we describe, and for younger children, there is no elucidated short-term calculus party trend to outweigh this. At worst, increased teenager voting percentage will push votes toward long-term calculus.
1.9. Pro: If children are given the franchise at an early age, they will develop the habit of voting regularly, becoming more engaged and effective voters as adults.
1.10. Con: Exposing children to the moral issues involved in elections \(such as war, imprisonment, and injustice\) could burden them with challenges not well suited to their level of intellectual development.
1.11. Pro: Citizens are taught about participation in government around age 15 or 16, and withholding their right to vote creates frustration and dissonance.
1.12. Pro: Equal voting rights reinforces democratic institutions.
1.12.1. Pro: Universal voting, when it is truly universal, creates a norm of everyone getting the franchise, no matter what.
1.12.1.1. Pro: Extending the franchise in this way provides for a persuasive argument for the disenfranchised. The ability to say, “look, children can vote, but I can’t?” Will be a strong argument, both for retaining current suffrage, and for expanding it to groups like criminals, immigrants, or protectorates, in places where they do not have voting rights.
1.12.1.1.1. Con: Once this reform is passed, ending voter disenfranchisement takes a backseat on the political agenda, preventing issues such as minority and felon voter suppression from being addressed.
1.12.1.1.1.1. Con: Voting rights would become a hot-button issue, causing the opposite effect.
1.12.1.1.1.2. Con: Political noteworthiness is irrelevant when the courts can change laws.
1.12.1.1.1.3. Con: In most legislatures, numerous policies can be juggled at once.
1.12.1.1.1.4. Con: This is at best mitigatory, since without the policy there is no solvency mechanic for the franchise.
1.12.1.1.1.5. Con: Increasing democracy is more likely to result in more addressing of important issues of democracy than less, because it means more voices can be heard. Reducing disenfranchisement will increase democracy.
1.12.1.2. Pro: In precedent-based legal systems, this law imposes a legal barrier on franchise restriction. Any law restricting suffrage now has to be sure it doesn’t discriminate on age-based groups, or it will violate the constitutions or precedents of many WLDs. One important example of this is making Voter ID laws incontrovertibly Unconstitutional in the United States, since most minors do not have ID.
1.12.1.2.1. Con: Since there is no perfect voting system or law, this just adds noise to the discussion. Current laws as well as many future proposed ones disproportionately represent certain age groups \(some of whom are non-voters\), and by adding constant outrage over these policies, it would normalize the language of discrimination surrounding legislation like this instead of reserving it for important types of discrimination, such as racial discrimination.
1.12.1.2.1.1. Con: This is a very obscure impact. Age-based discriminatory language is unlikely to become common place as a result of the policy, so the links between impacts don't make it to the harm.
1.12.1.3. Pro: It keeps political groups who could stand to benefit, such as conservatives in the United Kingdom, from raising the voting age further. This is an especially pernicious threat as life expectancy rises and the social concept of adulthood rises.
1.12.1.3.1. Con: Very few groups try to do this, because the bar to change a voting process is extraordinarily high in most nations, usually requiring approval from multiple legislative, judicial, and executive bodies with ⅔ or higher votes.
1.12.1.3.1.1. Con: Anyone who stands to benefit from such a policy, is interested in promoting their rights. As life expectancy rises, it would even be reasonable to advance such a policy, in the same way the American drinking age rose.
1.12.1.3.1.1.1. Con: The American drinking age rose to prevent the high amounts of drunk driving accidents caused by 18-20 year olds, not for life expectancy increases. Any group which tried to do this would face massive resistance, not only among young voters who would become disenfranchised, but also minorities and other disadvantaged groups who would fear for their disenfranchisement.
1.12.1.4. Con: -> See 1.12.1.1.1.
1.12.2. Pro: Children are, on balance, less likely to vote for strongman candidates. This is important because those qualities that describe strongmen also go along with dismissive attitudes regarding democratic institutions, because they underline an ideology of narcissistic pragmatism, rather than one consistent with democracy.
1.12.2.1. Pro: Stances like authoritarianism, populism, and being tough-on-crime are best represented in a child’s experience by the people who are personally cruel to them, such as bullies, and children are far less likely to support them for that reason. There is an intuitive aversion to policies that seem "mean."
1.12.2.1.1. Con: Many children are bullies and sympathize with this point of view, especially when these candidates are not attacking them.
1.12.2.1.1.1. Con: Most children are not bullies. In every children's television show on the planet the bullies are the villains, because even children who are bullies do not identify with other bullies or consider themselves to be one.
1.12.2.2. Pro: The cult-of-personality behind strongman candidates requires self-aggrandizement and rude behavior, which kids are also likely to view as mean, causing them to like strongman candidates less on-balance. This is important because the cult-of-personality uniquely allows politicians to ignore democratic norms.
1.12.2.2.1. Con: The perceptions of strongman candidates highly depend on who is listening. While some might think they are being "rude", other might think they "telling it like it is". Children value honesty, or even perceived honesty, and don't like being talked down to as if they don't know anything. This makes strongman candidates more appealing to children.
1.12.2.2.1.1. Con: Children are used to and comfortable with being talked to as learners. These types of people are their teachers and parents.
1.12.2.2.2. Con: Children can't always read into sarcasm or allegories, allowing strongman candidates to project their persona to adults, but hide their rudeness from children.
1.12.2.2.2.1. Con: A candidate who always talks in sarcastic doublespeak will not win an election.
1.12.2.2.3. Con: Children are more drawn to candidates who behave rudely. They see them as more confident and more willing to take action.
1.12.2.2.3.1. Con: Children don't like people merely because they "take action." Adults do. Lord Voldemort "takes action." If anything, children identify better with a moderate approach which does not posit omnipotence.
1.12.2.3. Con: Strongman candidates will tailor their advocacy towards children in response. While today's strongman candidates' messages don't necessarily appeal to children, they can easily reshape their message into one of youth populism and rising against the elite elderly.
1.12.2.3.1. Con: If youth populism means ending policies like global warming and unsustainable budgeting, this would be on-balance good.
1.12.2.3.2. Con: Strongman candidates can target any population group. That does not change the fact that children are no-balance less disposed to vote for them.
1.12.2.3.3. Con: Children are not a large-enough portion of the population to turn this into a successful political movement.
1.12.2.4. Con: Alternatively, strongman candidates could gain support of the older population, creating an age divide and exploiting it for votes. For example, they could claim that the youth is voting to take away their pensions for higher educational spending, and the only way to prevent that is to vote for a pro-elderly strongman candidate.
1.12.2.4.1. Con: This provides no solvency for actually reordering insolvent fiscal situations. On top of that, elderly voting blocs already do this. It is very easy for interest groups to create fear of pension cuts even when there is no risk of them, so there is a nonunique political impact.
1.12.3. Con: Minor suffrage has negative effects on democratic institutions.
1.12.3.1. Con: Access to the ballot for everyone dramatically outweighs each of these concerns, because the democratic process is the mechanism by which their basic concerns are met.
1.12.3.1.1. Con: Not true. Children are unable to accurately reflect their basic concerns, and even if they are, they are unable to do so without suppressing other voters and preventing their concerns from being heard.
1.12.3.1.1.1. Con: Children, on-aggregate, would vote in their interests, even if not all of them did. This is an argument against anyone voting.
1.12.3.2. Pro: Candidates with high vote shares of young people may be unfairly discredited.
1.12.3.2.1. Con: If this is the case, politicians will adjust strategies toward winning over the middle-aged. Either way, children still receive a greater vote share.
1.12.3.2.1.1. Con: This is the status quo. Children will inevitably be targeted as a demographic due to their size by certain parties regardless though. This only delegitimizes democracy and causes people to lose faith in the democratic process.
1.12.3.2.2. Con: For all candidates who are competing for a plausible majority, children will make up too-small a portion of society to cause this effect.
1.12.3.2.2.1. Con: On the contrary, children \(who generally lean left\), will sway almost every single election. By adding a block of predominantly liberal voters of anywhere from 10-20% of the voting population will certainly cause different election results.
1.12.3.2.2.1.1. Con: We will concede that voting results shift leftward at the point where there has been not contention that liberal policies are preferable to conservative ones.
1.12.3.2.3. Con: If this didn't happen following women's suffrage, it's unclear why it would happen now.
1.12.3.2.3.1. Con: This didn't happen with women's suffrage because contact theory allowed society to understand that men and women were equally capable of making rational voting decisions. However, people understand that children are often irrational, and unable to make good decisions in complex matters, such as voting. Candidates who appeal to children will be discredited for this.
1.12.3.2.3.1.1. Con: Sexism existed for a while.
1.12.3.3. Pro: The perception that manipulation of children's votes through institutions is occurring will cause a ton of electoral vitriol over how campaigns are being run and backlash against educational children's’ programming.
1.12.3.3.1. Con: Problems with dumbed-down campaigns exist already. Social phenomena such as "Fake News" prove that disinformation and deception are already crucial elements to politics. It is therefore necessary for the public to reign in deception with impartial fact-checking. An easy way to create political will for this is by making children a part of the political process, and ensuring that even young, trusting people have sufficient reliable information access to vote.
1.12.3.3.1.1. Con: Impartial fact checking is impossible, because one side of the aisle will always complain that the fact check is lying.
1.12.3.3.1.1.1. Con: That doesn't make the fact-checking impartial, just disputed. Reliable fact-checkers can overcome this concern.
1.12.3.3.1.2. Con: The problem is that children are significantly more susceptible to this sort of "fake news". At least adults have had education and have experience in the real world to understand these things. Political will for this would be impossible to get as well. Political parties would try to exploit this as a means for votes, and they would vote against any efforts to stop it.
1.12.3.3.1.2.1. Con: It's absurd to think that all political parties would vote against media distortion of votes, since they must go in one direction or the other, on aggregate.
1.12.3.3.2. Con: Parents will counter this possible perception by working harder to give kids the tools to think critically about information they consume.
1.12.3.3.2.1. Con: This will just hurt the poor more. While rich parents can afford to take time off and spend time with their kids, poor families must work much longer hours and can't stay at home as much, leading to the education gap between the rich and the poor that we see today. Unfortunately, these poor kids will not have had as much resources to develop their critical thinking skills, making them more susceptible to media manipulation.
1.12.3.3.2.1.1. Con: Poor parents empirically spend more time with their children than rich ones.
1.12.3.3.3. Con: Children will be better prepared for the problems of information distributions in the status-quo as a result of their political activity. Studies show that, even controlling for desire to vote, the fact that a person does vote, or is instructed to vote, will encourage them to inform themselves so that they can make a responsible decision.
1.12.3.3.3.1. Con: But what will they inform themselves with? Inevitably, they will turn towards the media that is designed to catch their eye and manipulate them.
1.12.3.3.3.1.1. Con: This is how all citizens inform themselves. Society fundamentally depends on some form of reliable media.
1.12.3.4. Pro: -> See 1.8.3.3.
1.12.4. Con: There is no historical basis for the claim that democratic institutions have become more stable or accepted by expanding the set of people eligible to vote.
1.12.4.1. Con: There were riots and nation-wide marches in the United States during the Vietnam war, in part because the draft included men from the ages of 18 to 21 \(the voting age was 21 at the time\). The [26th Amendment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twenty-sixth_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution) changed this, and a lot of activism around this issue abated, thus showing an increase in stability. The validity of the US as a democracy increased because it was not impelling non-voters to fight without having a say, mirroring 'no taxation without representation' founding slogan.
1.13. Con: Giving children voting rights dilutes the votes of adults.
1.13.1. Con: Even if it is true that children are bad voters, this does not legitimate banning their votes. We would be appalled by a voting test because it would cause inevitable  oppresion and because democracy is an expressive mechanism, not just a deliberative one.
1.13.1.1. Con: This is different from a voting test because eventually all people are able to vote. It is also equally applied to all citizens, making it a fair process.
1.13.1.1.1. Con: Not everyone lives to the age of 18, and those peoples' right to vote is totally abridged.
1.13.1.1.1.1. Con: Our entire side is that the right doesn't exist until you reach an age of majority.
1.13.1.1.1.1.1. Con: There has not yet been an argument for what can establish a bright line on competence to vote.
1.13.1.1.2. Con: Equally applied effects are not inherently just. It would be unjust to institute a voting age of 50, or to charge a voting fee to everyone, so why is a voting age of 18 meaningfully different?
1.13.1.1.2.1. Con: Would it be unjust to institute a voting of 50?It may not be practical, but it is not morally unjust on the grounds of inequality.
1.13.1.1.2.1.1. Con: This is a facially improbable premise.
1.13.1.1.2.1.2. Con: It would be unjust for the same reason the voting age was lowered from 21 to 18: those above the line could compel those under to do things that are morally questionable. In the case of the United States it was the draft for the Vietnam war: people who could not vote were being forced to fight \(and kill\), which is morally unjust given those people had no say in the government whatsoever. To a lesser degree, any force exerted by the government on youth is similarly unjust.
1.13.1.2. Con: -> See 1.1.1.1.
1.13.2. Pro: Children will not make good voting decisions.
1.13.2.1. Con: Children do not need to be smart or responsible, they merely need to be incentived to vote for the best people. They aren't the ones making the policy.
1.13.2.1.1. Con: The problem is that not only are they not smart and not responsible, they aren't incentivized to vote for the best person. They will vote for candidates as a joke, because of peer pressure, or for other non-best candidate reasons.
1.13.2.1.1.1. Con: -> See 1.8.3.1.
1.13.2.1.1.2. Con: -> See 1.8.1.
1.13.2.2. Con: Quality of vote is not a moral reason to not allow a person to vote. There are plenty of adults who make foolish votes, but we wouldn't say they may not vote again.
1.13.2.2.1. Con: -> See 1.1.1.1.
1.13.2.2.2. Con: We're not saying these individuals can never vote. Rather, we're giving them time to develop and learn so they can make an educated decision when their time to vote comes. While some adults may vote foolishly, and there is nothing we can do about that, it is irresponsible to allow children who for sure do not have the education and experience necessary to make a well-qualified decision vote. At least adults have the chance to do make a good decision.
1.13.2.2.2.1. Con: -> See 1.12.3.3.3.
1.13.2.3. Con: Allowing children to vote might force the issue of testing voter competency in some way.
1.13.2.3.1. Con: Testing voter competency is more dangerous as a tool for disenfranchisement than it is beneficial as a tool for qualifying voter competency.
1.13.2.3.1.1. Con: Age based voting restrictions guarantee disenfranchisement, and adults who are not sufficiently competent to pass a test designed to eliminate votes from incompetent people, should not based on age alone be given more right to vote than a child who can pass such a test.
1.13.2.3.2. Pro: This could be used to reduce the effect of votes cast by adults without basic reasoning skills or understanding, thereby improving the signal-to-noise ratio.
1.13.2.4. Pro: While children are dependent on their parents, they are often restricted in their desire or ability to seek out alternative perspectives on complicated issues; their votes are likely to mimic their parents' votes, biasing results.
1.13.2.4.1. Con: A family of six \(two adults, four children\) has three times the stake as a family of two \(two adults\) in the wellbeing of the overall society. Unless the needs of children are not taken into account, it is a form of inequality to give the family of two disproportionate say by disenfranchising the children in the family of six.
1.13.2.4.2. Con: [A study by the British Journal of Political Science](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-political-science/article/why-does-the-apple-fall-far-from-the-tree-how-early-political-socialization-prompts-parentchild-dissimilarity/AB191D8C85DD9C046032DA9A4098EE0D) shows that the children of politically active parents are more likely to abandon the beliefs of those parents.
1.13.2.5. Pro: Children have not completed a base level of education that would give them the insight to make informed political decisions.
1.13.2.5.1. Con: Neither have many adults, who are not prevented from voting despite this fact. A sufficient level of insight is not a prerequisite for voting.
1.13.2.6. Con: It is impossible in a democracy to define what a 'good voting decision' is, so it would be impossible for a child to fail to make a good one. If you can define what a 'good' vote is, it obviates the need to vote - which is not a democracy.
1.13.2.7. Pro: Children will be highly influenced by peer pressure to make voting decisions, and will not take them seriously. They will vote in candidates as pranks, vote for candidates because a popular kid at school told them to, or vote a certain way to avoid being bullied.
1.13.2.7.1. Con: These are unrealistic concerns because there is no given reason why a student would be likely to bully others into voting for a particular candidate.
1.13.2.7.1.1. Con: There are plenty of reasons. First, a bully might want a candidate to win, and bullying people into voting for them is effectively canvassing for them. Secondly, a bully might think it's funny to force people to vote for who they think might be a bad candidate. Third, their parents might have manipulated them into liking a certain candidate, and they feel personally attacked by other kids who like other candidates. This can be especially true when the candidate uses inflammatory rhetoric.
1.13.2.7.1.1.1. Con: This is not a meaningfully relevant consideration at the point where it occurs negligibly often, and is equally weighty in both a leftward and rightward direction.
1.13.2.7.2. Con: There is no efficacy on this argument, because there is no way for a fellow student to know how another student voted This is part of the reason this does not occur for adults, even though they are just as subject to social pressures as children are, if not more so.
1.13.2.7.2.1. Con: The problem is that kids don't know that or the bully can threaten to find out. Also, kids don't like to lie, and will try to avoid it if possible.
1.13.2.7.2.1.1. Con: If this is the case, then the illegality of voter intimidation will effectively deter bullies, the same way it does for adults.
1.13.2.7.3. Con: The fact that a person's vote might be influenced is not a reason they should not be allowed to vote. Everyone's votes are influenced by one thing or another, be it experts, ideas, or incentives.
1.13.2.7.4. Con: If this effect occurs relatively equally for the left and right wing candidates, then it has no effect on electoral outcomes.
1.13.2.7.4.1. Con: That is not the point of this argument. It is not good to have voters making ill-informed decisions, even if it doesn't affect the overall result. In this case, it might very well affect the result, as children might end up voting for a funny candidate as opposed to a serious one.
1.13.2.7.4.1.1. Con: Adults are also incredibly influenced by social characteristics in politicians \(see JFK's race against Nixon\).
1.13.2.7.4.1.2. Con: Children are also less likely to be influenced by many other arbitrary characteristics such as economic class of candidates.
1.13.2.7.5. Pro: There is a difference between making a independent decision while considering other influences versus being manipulated into doing certain things. There's a reason we don't let minors make financial decisions about their trusts, sign legal documents, or do a whole lot of other things. It is because they are not able to make responsible decisions yet.
1.13.2.7.5.1. Con: The difference between democracy and financial decision-making is that democracy is expressive. There is an explicit goal to financial decisions and a clear way they ought to be performed, but democracy is both a way for an individual to consent to the state and a way for them to express subjective political preferences, which cannot be substituted or clearly defined otherwise.
1.13.2.7.5.2. Con: There is no articulated bright line between those two things.
1.13.2.8. Pro: -> See 1.1.1.1.
1.13.3. Con: Votes of competent children would dilute votes of incompetent adults, which is better than votes of competent people being eliminated based on an arbitrary number of years old they have to be.
1.13.4. Con: Votes of honest children who aren't afraid to do what's right just because they're told the odds are against it, would beneficially dilute the votes of dishonest adults gaming the system with votes based on such logic as preference for the "lesser of two evils" winning out over voting for the candidate perceived to be the best choice.
1.14. Con: Minor suffrage would increase child abuse and exploitation.
1.14.1. Con: Neither of these things are child abuse by a long-shot.
1.14.1.1. Con: These things lead to child abuse down the road, and are certainly exploitative and wrong.
1.14.2. Pro: Adults will now want to control their children's votes, and exploit or pressure them into voting for certain candidates. This will weaken parents' bonds with their children and cause strife within families.
1.14.2.1. Con: On balance this isn’t effective, because it makes teenagers more likely to rebel from ideology, so it doesn’t change the vote proportions
It’s not even that bad if this does happen, because it still makes votes more likely to fit into demographic proportions, since children fit most of the same demographics as their parents
1.14.2.1.1. Con: Not all children are teenagers. Parents can now bribe their 5 year old with a piece of candy to vote for the candidate of the parent's choosing.
1.14.2.1.1.1. Con: Left and right-wing individuals have children at an equal weight, so even if this argument is true, it makes no difference on our preferable voting outcomes. Young kids cancel each other out and teenagers skew society leftward.
1.14.2.1.2. Con: Parent's can also threaten to ground teenagers if they don't vote a certain way or use reverse psychology on them.
1.14.2.1.2.1. Con: There would be no efficacy to this strategy, since voting is secret and such a strategy would require 10 years of "reverse-psychology."
1.14.2.1.2.2. Con: This is just not how any parents think. Parents care much more about developing children into thoughtful independent people than training them in a certain way
1.14.2.1.2.2.1. Con: Parents will know that is it harmless to do this to their 2-3 year old child, who won't even understand or remember what they're doing. Also, there are much more "educational" ways to do it, as parents impart their values upon their children, and they can easily manipulate this into a political advocacy without any negative child development effects.
1.14.2.1.2.2.1.1. Con: There is a double-bind. If the practice is harmful to the development of children \(however, you are arguing it will be done\), then parents will not want to do it. If it is not harmful to their political development and critical thinking, then there is no impact.
1.14.2.1.3. Con: Fitting votes in demographic proportions is not the goal. The goal is educated, informed voting, and by effectively proxying votes to parents, we do not do that.
1.14.2.1.3.1. Con: Insofar as people, on-aggregate, vote in their own interest, we achieve  best outcomes by providing proportional voting power. This is an argument for utilizing voting tests even if it disenfranchises marginalized groups.
1.14.2.1.4. Con: Additionally, this skews demographics by weighting votes in favor of families with many children.
1.14.2.1.4.1. Con: -> See 1.8.2.
1.14.2.2. Con: -> See 1.14.2.1.2.2.
1.14.2.3. Con: At best this is marginal, since parents already raise children, and define their core beliefs.
1.14.2.3.1. Con: Exactly, except now we prevent parents from gaining 1 extra vote for every child that they have.
1.14.2.3.1.1. Con: -> See 1.8.2.
1.14.3. Pro: This causes children to be more objectified as they stop being worthy of themselves as developing persons and start being valuable as a function of their vote. Teachers and other authority figures will try to psychologically manipulate these children into voting a certain way.
1.14.3.1. Con: Votes are far too marginal a commodity to outweigh fundamental human worth. This effect does not occur for the mentally disabled, elderly, or destitute, so its unclear why it would occur for children.
1.14.3.1.1. Con: It does occur for those individuals as well, but they have life experience to combat that objectification and understand their place in society, unlike children.
1.14.3.2. Pro: Parents will indoctrinate children even more, because they will not want their children to be voting the wrong way.
1.14.3.2.1. Con: -> See 1.14.2.1.
1.14.3.2.2. Con: -> See 1.14.2.1.2.2.
1.14.3.2.3. Con: -> See 1.14.2.3.
1.14.3.3. Pro: Schools will be likely to make curriculums more ideologically balanced toward local political viewpoints, to ensure children vote in line with them.
1.14.3.3.1. Con: Worst case scenario, this forces schools to teach students contemporary issues like economic and government, which is probably a good change compared to the third year in a row of domestic history and taking a language you’ll never speak 10 years before we invent universal translators. This makes students more equipped to think critically about political issues
1.14.3.3.1.1. Con: Ideological brainwashing doesn't have to be taught in a political setting and likely won't be in schools. It's not like they're going to have a government class that says "vote conservative" or something like that. Rather, it's going to be subtle things like prioritizing certain cultural symbols \(the confederate flag, for example\), funding certain political student organizations more, and hiring professors of similar political leaning.
1.14.3.3.2. Con: Teachers, school boards, and educational bureaucracies are generally liberal, demographically, so if liberals are better than conservatives this is okay
1.14.3.3.3. Con: This politicizes school curriculum, where as in status-quo local governments get to do whatever they want to define curriculum in many countries. This increases the likelihood of moving toward national, judicial, or at least unbiased curriculum
1.14.3.3.4. Con: This happens in status-quo, but child voters will make parents more sensitive to it, so they will check against it better
1.14.3.4. Pro: Television programming will be dumbed down even more and try even harder to encode ideas within malleable children to affect their votes.
1.14.3.4.1. Con: This argument is contradictory. If programming is dumbed-down, it would be to avoid implementing partisan ideas. If they try harder to encode ideas, they would be more educational and political. In all likelihood, neither meaningfully occurs. At worst, parents will pay more attention to what their children watch on television, because they will fear this argument. If so, kids will trend toward more educational, less partisan programming.
1.14.4. Con: The same could be said of allowing employed workers to vote, since that runs the risk of their employers abusing them or exploiting them in similar ways, so it's better to deal with such issues than avoid them through direct disenfranchisement.
1.14.4.1. Pro: One or more simple questions on the ballot could allow coerced voting to be counted for the purposes of addressing the issue while eliminating coerced votes from directly affecting the outcome.
1.15. Con: Minor suffrage suppresses minority voters.
1.15.1. Pro: Rapidly increasing the voter population due to minor suffrage harms people in urban areas \(which generally have the highest minority populations\) through overcrowding, where voting locations are already the most crowded.
1.15.1.1. Con: In most democracies, stations run fairly smoothly.
1.15.1.1.1. Con: Additionally, in most democracies, law abiding adults are the ones voting, not children who will throw tantrums and barely \(if at all\) understand how the voting machine works. Some children will likely push buttons because they like certain colors and mess around with the machine, causing potential voter fraud as well.
1.15.1.1.1.1. Con: You can't commit voter fraud by pushing a couple of buttons.
1.15.1.2. Con: Urban areas typically have the best per-capita funding due to that crowding, and thus the best systems in place.
1.15.1.2.1. Con: They are also most susceptible to many complications that come with getting people to come to the polls, such as traffic, lack of polling stations or poll workers, terrorist attacks, threats, military presence, and fear of government surveillance.
1.15.1.2.1.1. Con: It's unclear why marginally increased voter quantity uniquely exacerbates any of these things.
1.15.1.3. Con: The voters with the lowest turnout are actually rural whites, because they have the least centralized local voting places, not the lower-class or racial minority groups.
1.15.1.3.1. Con: This may be true in the United States, but is certainly not applicable worldwide. In fact in the us, voter ID laws and other forms of voter suppression target minority groups, preventing voting. Additionally, rural whites are far from the most privileged group in the US, as suburban whites make up most of that.
1.15.1.3.1.1. Con: The important point is that rural white have the most problematic and regressive voting tendencies.
1.15.1.4. Con: If this causes increased organizational issues at polling stations, it will create the necessary political will to motivate solutions for this status quo problem. Such solutions include increased funding, early voting, and online voting.
1.15.1.4.1. Con: That's like saying causing a problem will cause it to be solved. It's better to avoid the problem in the first place. On top of that, passing a groundbreaking voting reform like allowing children to vote will sap political will for passing future voting reforms, because it will appear as if other issues are being neglected.
1.15.1.4.1.1. Con: It is not that hard to pass popular legislation, and accelerationism can sometimes be necessary, as explained in the original argument.
1.15.2. Pro: Children are especially problematic voters because it's impossible to tell if they have tallied a vote. You have to keep them stuck in the booth for a while and take them out after several minutes, clogging booths even further.
1.15.2.1. Con: -> See 1.15.1.1.
1.15.2.2. Con: There's no reason why children can't have simplified mechanisms for tallying votes. This may even bring about positive changes to make voting more accessible to everyone.
1.15.2.2.1. Con: Voting mechanism simplicity isn't the problem, it's the child. Instead of filling out their ballot and leaving, the child will become distracted, and color on the ballot, push buttons on the voting machine, or cry because their parents aren't there and they're scared, wasting time.
1.15.2.2.1.1. Con: If voting were as easy as selecting one individual in a clearly defined list, it would be easy for children to do. If they are unready or hesitant, they don't need to vote.
1.15.2.2.1.1.1. Con: The problem is that children do not know if the are ready until they actually step in the booth. They are stubborn, and will likely not make a timely decision. Additionally, some children simply can't read.
1.15.2.2.1.2. Con: The same can be said of any adult at the same level of development and with the same level of competency, so age alone is not a fair determiner of who will of will not behave in such ways, let alone whether they should be allowed to have their wishes or opinion counted in a vote.
1.15.2.2.2. Pro: There's no valid reason why less competent adults, as well as adults who are competent but lazy or impatient or easily confused or just want voting to be easier, can't have simplified mechanisms available to them for casting their votes, and of course providing such simplification for adults in a system which does not discriminate based on age would also make such simplification available to children who wish to cast a vote with regard to an issue or an election.
1.15.2.3. Con: Children are not significant enough a portion of the population to create this effect.
1.15.2.3.1. Con: Children under the age of 18 are 10% of the population at the very least in every country, enough to make a huge difference in the polls. In some countries, that number can be over 30%.
1.15.2.4. Con: I see no reason to accept that competent children can be assumed to be any more problematic as voters than incompetent adults and in a system which has never allowed children to vote there are likely no statistics with which to support such a claim that they would be problematic simply because they are below an arbitrary age of adulthood.
1.15.2.5. Con: If it is truly impossible, or even significantly difficult, to determine whether a child has tallied a vote, then the same is true of an adult voter of equal mental, physical, and emotional ability, so it seems arbitrary to make such a claim about children rather than about people with certain problematic characteristics irrespective of their chronological age.
1.15.2.6. Con: -> See 1.15.1.4.
1.15.3. Pro: Privileged groups, which turn out at higher rates, will have more child voters because they have access to cars, passports, and stay-at-home parents who can take their kids to vote more than disadvantaged minority groups.
1.15.3.1. Con: -> See 1.8.1.
1.15.3.2. Con: Families with young children are generally younger than the median voter. This means they are more progressive, because they do not include the elderly voters who make up the most regressive bloc in an attempt to re-institute the values of their childhood.
1.15.3.2.1. Con: This is highly dependent on the country. In many parts of the world, the average age is below 30, and these voters could be older than the median voter. Within this group, the most privileged \(and likely most conservative\), will show up to the polls the most, negating this effect.
1.15.3.2.1.1. Con: Few effective democracies fall under the demographic umbrella described, and for those countries, the average child-bearing age is much lower, so the effect still exists.
1.15.3.3. Con: It’s easier for children to vote in the United States \(and similar countries\) because they are at school, where many voting stations are located, so it reduces the rich-poor vote gap. In other nations, these turnout issues are not so severe.
1.15.3.3.1. Con: Many poor children have to work with their parents instead of going to school, exacerbating the rich-poor gap. Also, in many countries, voting stations aren't at schools.
1.15.3.3.1.1. Con: Child labor is illegal. Teenagers are required to go to school during the regular school day until the age 16 \(in the United States, since voting holidays address this issue\). At best this argument is extremely marginal.
1.15.3.4. Con: If it’s true that a group votes more than another group in the status-quo, them being able to bring their children to vote doesn’t expand the proportional gap. The ratio of voters in either group is the same either way, so at best there is no impact.
1.15.3.4.1. Con: Poor adults often can't take off time from work or do not have the transportation to get their child from home or school to the voting booth in addition to getting from work to the voting booth themselves. Not only do rich individuals turn out more already, but they are also more likely to bring their children.
1.15.3.4.1.1. Con: If 50% of poor people vote, but 60% of rich people do, and each person \(on-aggregate\) has 1.2 children, there is no reason to think that bringing children does not affect voting power. Because poor people have more children though, the reverse works in the policy's favor.
1.15.3.5. Con: In most democracies, it is extremely easy to vote due to nationalized ID systems and voter holidays, so this is not a concern.
1.15.3.5.1. Con: It might be easy to vote now, but immediately introducing 20% more people to the polls will certainly cause problems. Additionally, many children don't have state ID's, complicating matters further.
1.15.3.5.1.1. Con: In these countries, IDs are accessible and would be easy to implement for children. The 20% figure is around triple the actual rate in most Western Liberal Democracies.
1.15.3.6. Con: In the United States, and age-based voting legalization would make voter ID laws unconstitutional for clear age-based discrimination, so we actually undermine the most exclusionary systems which cause disparate voting rates.
1.15.3.7. Con: -> See 1.15.1.3.
1.15.4. Con: Even if these arguments are true, the argument about increased left-wing voting outweighs it, because on-balance left-wing voters are much more likely to undermine oppressive systems which harm all minority groups.
1.15.4.1. Con: Not all minority voters are left-wing.
1.15.4.1.1. Con: -> See 1.8.1.
1.15.4.2. Con: Additionally, minority voting is a good thing in and of itself in that minorities get a voice in their government. Allowing certain non-minority groups "who have the best interests of the minorities at heart" vote as opposed to the minorities themselves is a classic "white savior" argument.
1.15.4.2.1. Con: Such a circumstance is not ideal, but it is preferable to the actual violent oppression marginalized persons suffer in the status quo.