Discussion Title: Should Children Learn About Gender Identity And Sexual Orientation In School?

1. Children should learn about gender identity and sexual orientation in school.
1.1. Con: Some families, due to their cultural or religious backgrounds, may be against it.
1.1.1. Con: It is children from these families who would benefit the most from it.
1.1.2. Pro: Not all families accept this behavior, so it shouldn't be added to basic public school teaching. If these kinds of things were added, children would be constantly indoctrinated with other people's beliefs. Parents should be allowed to choose what information goes into their child's brain, and who they want them to become.
1.1.2.1. Con: This depends on whether you consider gender identity and sexual orientation to be factual or not; it isn't simply an 'idea' or 'belief', but a fact of life.
1.1.2.2. Con: Disagreement with facts does not necessitate their removal from curricula.
1.1.3. Con: Some parents may be racist and thus against teaching about Slavery or Jim Crow. That doesn't mean those subjects shouldn't be truthfully covered.
1.2. Con: Teachers may not have the knowledge to convey the information, doing more harm than good.
1.2.1. Con: Teachers themselves can be provided the requisite knowledge.
1.2.1.1. Con: Because of the split in beliefs on this subject \(some saying it's possible for someone to be born in a body with a sex different to their apparent biological sex, some saying it's not\) this would be hard to do.
1.2.2. Con: Schools could have a teacher or expert on hand to convey this information.
1.2.2.1. Con: There are experts that claim it's possible for a boy to be in the body of a girl and there are experts that claim this is not possible \([Source](https://www.transgendertrend.com/born-in-the-wrong-body/)\). It would be difficult to choose the right expert
1.2.3. Con: By this reasoning, no subject of importance should be taught in school.
1.2.3.1. Con: Many subjects have a huge consensus as to what is the truth - this subject at this time does not. [For example...](https://www.transgendertrend.com/born-in-the-wrong-body/)
1.2.4. Pro: As gender is such a complex and subjective experience,we do not have the authority to define gender / being transgender. Because of this, we do not have the resources to then teach it effectively.
1.2.4.1. Con: "We" do not have to define gender or being transgender. Rather, "we" can present scientific and peer-reviewed sources and discuss stories of how people experience gender in terms of their personal identity.
1.3. Con: This relies on the teaching being compassionate and unbiased; teachers with personal or political biases could end up causing more harm than good.
1.3.1. Con: Slippery Slope Fallacy. The solution is not to avoid trying, even though there could be negative effects.

If it was mandated that children should be taught about gender identity / sexual orientation, but there were teachers which allowed personal bias to interfere with that, then the issue becomes how to prevent those teachers from doing so.

This does not mean it's a 'bad idea' to pass such a mandate.
1.3.1.1. Con: Sexual orientation may be something that can be objectively taught, but gender identity is a very polarized debate, and just to decide how to teach it is to take a biased political stance.
1.3.1.1.1. Con: While one person's actual gender identity is subjective, [gender identity](http://www.apa.org/topics/lgbt/transgender.aspx) as a whole is objective and can be presented objectively.
1.3.1.1.2. Con: Many points in history are also subjects of polarized debate, but they can still be and are taught objectively.
1.3.2. Pro: At the moment almost everyone has a strong belief, one way or the other, on this subject.
1.4. Pro: Learning about gender identity and sexual orientation in health classes in school could promote a more accepting environment and reduce bullying.
1.4.1. Con: There is no evidence that the education actually decreases the amount of bullying. In fact, it might exacerbate the problem by creating focus on it.
1.4.1.1. Pro: The new labels provided by gender education encourages the labeling of children in the class. An effeminate boy may not want attention drawn to his effeminacy and may not want to be labeled or questioned by others.
1.4.1.1.1. Pro: Valentines Day card making encourages children to question each other about who they love, the answers to which questions would otherwise remain private and uncoerced to be revealed. Being ‘forced out of the closet’ is social pressure kids don’t need.
1.4.2. Pro: Unbiased and factual lectures can clear up any misconceptions that can create an aversion against the LGBTQ+ community in some students' minds. They could have a weekly/monthly assembly or something like that and daily reminders that anonymous reports of bullying are an option\(can help school keep track of any effects the lectures have on students and overall acceptance\). Schools are required to end and prevent bullying when they can, and this is an opportunity to do so.
1.4.3. Pro: Discrimination against the LGBTQ community is [still a major problem](https://www.hrc.org/youth-report/view-and-share-statistics), and this could help to fix it.
1.4.3.1. Pro: [Children in classes that included LGBT content reported less harassment than children in classes without it.](https://tcf.org/content/commentary/can-education-reduce-prejudice-lgbt-people/?agreed=1)
1.5. Pro: Learning about LGBTQ+ identities could help children discover their own identities and better understand themselves.
1.5.1. Pro: Children that don't receive at least some kind of education might expose themselves to dangers, such as STDs when they try to discover things on their own.
1.5.2. Con: Children may feel safe and accepted and decide to come out to their parents. If their families are really against LGBT identities that can be very problematic.
1.5.3. Pro: In the case of young transgender children, having awareness and understanding may help those with severe body dysphoria or self-esteem problems.
1.6. Pro: Developing a curriculum for this also means that teachers get to learn things that they might not otherwise have considered, which can make them more effective and compassionate as educators.
1.7. Pro: Understanding gender diversity would break down stereotypes and reduce sexism.
1.7.1. Pro: Having this information better equips individuals to deal with issues concerning gender and be aware of their own intent and opinions that are rooted in gender and gender bias.
1.8. Con: Children should learn about gender identity and sexual orientation from their families rather than in class.
1.8.1. Con: Not all families are capable of educating their children on this topic, either because of circumstances \(poverty, broken home, etc.\) or because of religious beliefs.
1.8.2. Con: Families may not have good knowledge of gender identity and sexual orientation, particularly if they come from a cultural background that condemns such expression.
1.8.3. Con: Children may not have a beneficial, welcoming and nurturing family life.
1.8.4. Con: What if parents choose not to educate or discuss LGBT issues with their children? Where will they learn? From their peers? I agree that there are subjects that are sensitive are best addressed by parents, but this is human behavior and biology; aka science.
1.8.5. Con: Some families are very conservative and openly homophobic. Most likely, they wouldn't discuss the topic. Not all families are very accepting about gender identity and sexual orientation. If it was taught in school, it would help children understand more about themselves.
1.9. Pro: [Gender identity](http://www.apa.org/topics/lgbt/transgender.aspx) and various sexual orientations exist and, therefore, students will likely interact with those concepts and people for whom those concepts matter.
1.10. Con: It's a complicated topic, and children might not understand.
1.10.1. Con: Children certainly will not understand if no-one attempts to teach them.
1.10.2. Pro: Children aren't always in a position, mentally, to understand the complexities of sexuality, gender, and identity. Being introduced to complex concepts like these too early can create more confusion in an already confusing time as children are developing.
1.10.3. Con: If taught correctly, they will understand.
1.10.3.1. Con: Teaching any sensitive issue 'correctly' is subject to intense debate and scrutiny.
1.10.3.2. Con: Teaching children terms and basic descriptions may mean that they use the terms more freely, but does not mean that they truly understand the implications, or how it feels to be transgender. It is presumptuous to believe that children will naturally understand the nuances of experiencing gender.
1.10.4. Con: By this logic, almost no subjects should be taught in school.
1.11. Pro: This should be taught in school because it would reduce a lot of misunderstandings people have about the LGBT+ community.
1.11.1. Pro: Outdated cultural stereotypes, like the common misconception that gay people have a greater rate of HIV/AIDS, could be debunked from an early age.