Discussion Title: Should taxpayers have direct control of how their taxes are spent?

1. Those who pay tax should be able to earmark some portion of their personal tax contribution to their choice of projects, departments, and other government expenditures.
1.1. Pro: Taxpayers desiring greater control can do so while the government can still engage in discretionary funding as not everyone would like to earmark their taxes.
1.2. Con: The direct control of our taxes is undesirable as it is more efficient for them to be administered by specialists who are able to analyse the general framework of government. Despite that, is always good to have the right of petition.
1.3. Pro: Government departments will need to more publicly discuss their work and spending, leading to a more transparent government.
1.3.1. Con: Citizens are already overburdened with political information and decisions. Adding taxation to the list of issues to consider would also mean more uninformed citizens making important economic decisions.
1.3.2. Pro: More transparency regarding taxes and government spending can reduce corruption.
1.4. Con: The influence over spending of tax is a political decision via participation in elections.
1.4.1. Pro: The appropriate method of direct discretionary contribution is by donation to charities.
1.4.1.1. Con: This is not about the best ways in which private citizens can give money to honorable causes they choose. This is about money citizens already pay to governments for services they use, and the possibility to have a say on that.
1.4.1.1.1. Con: According to existing USA tax policies, your charity donations are [tax deductible](https://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm?bay=content.view&cpid=6217&gclid=Cj0KCQjwvqbaBRCOARIsAD9s1XDSwJoZliU0HfBcg4M-ZHCkDN4H1HhvGD6ud2-yjszYt1fACbs7nnsaAn8iEALw_wcB). If you donate an amount equal-to-or-exceeding your tax debt, you become exempt. Many wealthy individuals use this method to [promote themselves](http://hipporeads.com/philanthropy-selfless-or-tax-incentivized/) as philanthropists, by making huge donations to high profile charities. It actually costs them nothing, since they would have paid the same amount in taxes.
1.4.1.2. Con: This limits influence to those who can afford to both pay their taxes and contribute noticeable sums to charities.
1.4.2. Con: Elections are a very restrictive or limited way to allow citizens to engage in political decisions. More options for citizens to make their voices heard, like referendums, participatory processes or the possibility to choose where part of their taxes go, may contribute to strength democracy.
1.4.2.1. Con: Citizens may lack the information and knowledge to make the best decisions or even put their own needs before the common good. Political institutions are better actors to make decisions for everybody.
1.4.3. Pro: Whilst improving public discussion \(with sites like this attached to parliaments\) is a good thing, micro managing political platforms \(which need to be cohesive\) will in fact undermine the Parliamentary process.  4 or 5 yearly general elections choosing between costed manifestos is enough.
1.4.3.1. Con: The importance of platform cohesion is to unite the largest number of people behind that platform on election day. If platform specifics were dictated in collaboration with the electorate, platform cohesion would be less important at election time.
1.4.4. Con: Campaign promises \(especially regarding taxes\) are enormously unreliable.  As such, elections are an ineffective method of clearly getting one's choices across.
1.4.5. Con: Voting does not prevent politicians from going against their constituents wishes between elections. Discretion over individual tax spending would prevent post-election corruption, flip-flopping, and wasteful pork spending to keep elected politicians from abusing their position.
1.4.6. Con: Individual discretion over tax spending would allow the "losing side" to still have some say in how they participate and contribute towards projects and proposals which conflict with their personal views, which reduces voter disenfranchisement.
1.5. Pro: People should be able to withhold their tax from being spent on things to which they have a conscientious objection.
1.5.1. Pro: Conscientious objection to military service is enshrined in human rights law, and groups such as [Quakers seek to extend that exemption to paying military taxation.](http://www.quaker.org.uk/our-work/peace/conscientious-objection).
1.5.2. Con: This idea can be abused by the wrong people: discrimination of all kinds has been argued as moral or religious objection in the past.
1.5.2.1. Pro: For example, people could choose to not devote taxes to LGBT health-related issues due to faith objections.
1.5.2.1.1. Pro: This potentially enables the same discriminatory practices the U.S. has spent the last 60-70 years trying to wipe away.
1.5.2.1.2. Con: That is easily preventable by how laws regarding tax collection are implemented. For example, one could choose healthcare spending versus military, yet not directly the personal beneficiaries of that spending.
1.5.2.1.3. Con: No group or class of people has a legal right to taxpayer dollars until and unless the people \(through legislation\) grant them a portion of the budget.
1.5.2.1.3.1. Con: If citizens, for example, decide to publicly fund health services for the population of a given country, preventing funding from reaching specific groups \(LGBT, women or any other minorities\) would be discriminatory.
1.5.2.1.3.2. Con: Yet if citizens are equal before the law, each citizen should at least be entitled to services funded by taxes in the same manner.
1.5.2.1.3.2.1. Con: Citizens are equal in the application of the law, not in their entitlement to a portion of the budget, that is a misunderstanding of the term "equal under the law."
1.5.2.1.3.2.1.1. Con: Most legislation in liberal democracies prevent discrimination \(due to race, sex or other characteristics\). Being denied a service \(funded by taxes paid by all citizens\) on grounds of sex or sexuality would indeed be discriminatory.
1.5.2.1.3.2.1.2. Con: The provisioning and establishment of services is literally an application of the law \(specifically, the Constitution, in providing for the general welfare\).[Article 1, Section 8 - U.S. Constitution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Article_One_of_the_United_States_Constitution#Section_8:_Powers_of_Congress)
1.5.2.2. Con: Refusing to contribute money is not necessarily a discriminatory act because to withhold money from a cause or project is a negative decision instead of a positive one. If someone decides to withhold their money from ALL political projects, that person is not discriminatory against ALL kinds of people.
1.5.2.2.1. Con: Deciding how to spend taxes is not "refusing to contribute;" it's denying access to pre-existing funds. The "water" has already been gathered; picking and choosing who gets to drink could very well be a discriminatory act.
1.5.2.3. Con: All political acts include some form of discrimination between choices. The entire process of democracy is the placing of the power to choose one candidate over another, one policy over another, one party over another. If citizens do not have the right to choose which causes or people they can contribute to, then they lose the essential power distributed to them by having a vote at all.
1.5.2.3.1. Con: Calling discrimination "the essential power" of a democracy obfuscates the issue. In the United States, the Supreme Court has already recognized that the will of the people has to be balanced against the rights of the people. The right to vote is not a blank check for empowering discrimination and marginalization.
1.5.3. Pro: This would make people feel more in control of their contribution to the political process and make people feel less disenfranchised by allowing them the right to not participate according to their moral or ethical standards, enhancing the integrity of democracy and freedom.
1.6. Pro: It would make people more aware of the usefulness of their taxes, careful with public property, and appreciative of public benefits.
1.6.1. Pro: This would incentivize those resistant to taxation or who try to cheat the system to contribute, since they would have the opportunity to steer their funds \(and others\) toward programs in their interest.
1.7. Con: Less exciting government functions, such as sewage, could go underfunded.
1.7.1. Pro: If certain vital projects were underfunded as a result of this, taxes would go up while unnecessary money is left over in other areas.
1.7.1.1. Con: Supply and demand will do a better job of managing funding than central planning. If projects are underfunded, then service will suffer, and people will compensate by paying more to have the service run properly.
1.7.1.2. Con: If the state fails to manage a service properly for what taxpayers are willing to pay, private industry would step in to compete and do the same job for less.
1.7.1.2.1. Con: Private actors intervening in public sectors  is only possible when those are able to generate profit: not every government-funded sector is able to do so.
1.7.1.2.2. Con: Government's management should, in principle, be about the greater good. If one sets out with the assumption that private management will be the safety net, citizens are essentially subsidizing a private company whose obligations are to its shareholders and its profits, not the people.
1.7.2. Pro: Many important functions of government that have large funding are mostly unknown to people.
1.7.2.1. Con: If projects are unknown to taxpayers without their consent, then these projects should not exist. Taxpayers should have the right to total transparency unless they choose not to be informed for matters of state security, military operations, and other functions that must be conducted in secret.
1.7.3. Con: Tax discretion programs can be designed to allow citizens to choose only a part of their taxes' destination. Therefore, some vital \(and maybe unknown\) sectors can always ensure the minimum necessary funding.
1.7.4. Con: This is solved by moving taxation down to a lower-level of government, where the stakeholders live.  If the majority of stakeholders are in Alabama for sewage \(or other services\), then the income tax can be collected in Alabama; likewise of county or city.
1.7.5. Con: Spending may be more effectively directed if all taxpayers are involved in identifying underfunded or over-funded areas.
1.7.6. Con: The program can also include the [option](https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2010/10/what-if-taxpayers-could-decide-how-their-money-is-spent/63946/) "use my entire contribution where it is more needed".
1.7.7. Con: If they go underfunded, there will be problems such as spillage, overflow, and pollution that voters/taxpayers will be more than happy to spend their taxes on. This is a supply/demand issue that regulates itself based on the needs of a given area.
1.7.8. Con: Individual discretion over taxation will improve public awareness and engagement in mundane services. People may begin to find the topic of sewage and other public services very exciting if they're allowed to have a direct relationship with funding those services.
1.8. Con: It will be difficult to enact long-term projects or policies when public opinion could easily be swayed in a matter of months.
1.8.1. Con: People have a much more intense long term concern for things that really matter than politicians. The only projects that would be at risk are the ones that are supported by volatile passions, not the ones that really matter, like education or health.
1.8.2. Con: This could be made less a problem by letting the state reserve a certain portion of funds for basic services.
1.8.3. Con: Long-term projects or short term projects both require the constant consent of the people through investment of their tax dollars. If a long-term project is going south or being mismanaged, then the people rightly will cease to fund it. Likewise, if a long-term project is serving the people, they will be glad to continue funding it.
1.8.3.1. Con: Abandoning projects mid-funding, especially in infrastructure, may easily end up being a big waste of money and a misuse of resources.
1.9. Pro: Corporations, special interest groups and lobbies pressure governments, so they can have a say in legislation. It is only fair that common citizens have some degree of deciding power too, at least, regarding taxes.
1.9.1. Con: Lobbyists are useful as information-rich parties helping to guide policy. Common citizens have no collective expertise in the same way.
1.9.2. Pro: Yes, but only local and state taxes. Lobbying should be tightly controlled and no backroom deals should be allowed. Absolutely NO lobbyists should be able to write policy.
1.9.2.1. Pro: Norming sunshine laws in all but cases of national security would help prevent manipulation of funds by third parties.
1.9.2.2. Pro: Technically, individual citizens would become the only lobbyists allowed to influence legislation, essentially distributing corruption to all and ensuring fairness in the process.
1.9.3. Pro: It would even the odds between Corporate sponsers and tax payers. Corporations sponsor and bribe Senate for bills they want passed. Why can't the people at large dictate where their money is spent?
1.10. Con: This would give those who earn a higher income more say over the political process, eroding the principle of one vote per person.
1.10.1. Pro: Without "tax choice," citizens decide what gets funded through representative government, in which one person equal one vote. Under "tax choice," a program gets funding based on how many dollars were allocated to it by taxpayers - and people who pay more in taxes would have many more dollars to allocate, having many more "money votes" than others.
1.10.2. Con: This could be a good thing, if it encourages the very wealthy to pay more in taxes so that they can contribute directly to programs they value, instead of the current strategy of tax evasion and lobbying.
1.10.3. Pro: Higher-paid individuals may not have the best interests of society at heart. They may put their taxes into causes that benefit themselves, reducing taxation's function as a redistribution mechanism.
1.10.4. Pro: Low-income citizens are generally more politically disenfranchised. Only being able to having a say in tax distribution if they pay taxes would worsen the problem.
1.10.4.1. Con: In fact it would do the opposite, ensuring that poor folks' tax dollars were spent on things that benefit them directly instead of on projects that do nothing for their communities. It puts more power into their own hands.
1.10.5. Con: If the conditions to participate are paying taxes, regardless of amount, anyone who contributes should have the same decision-making power.
1.10.5.1. Con: This erodes the principle of having control of YOUR taxes. Instead, you are merely setting up a two-class system of political activity.
1.10.6. Con: "one person one vote" would still be the case. It would not change the voting process by giving more votes to anyone or taking votes away.
1.10.7. Con: If poor people make up a greater segment of the population, then their taxes may in fact make up a greater share of tax income than a small group of wealthier people. Due to the size of different classed populations, their numbers would actually work in their favor and make them a rich market demographic for politicians to serve.
1.11. Con: This puts minority groups \(racial, sexual, cultural, ideological\) at a disadvantage for government funding specific to their needs.
1.11.1. Con: Welfare and tax-funded services should benefit everybody in a given society, there is no need for especial groups.
1.11.1.1. Pro: In the US, for example, group-specific programs fly in the face of the founders' original intention: Congress is specifically empowered to promote the "general welfare," not the welfare of specific groups. [U.S. Constitution \(Article 1, Section 8\)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Article_One_of_the_United_States_Constitution#Section_8:_Powers_of_Congress)
1.11.1.2. Pro: Equality under the social contract should mean equal contribution leading to equal benefit. It is exploitative to take more from some to redirect benefits to others that contribute less.
1.11.1.3. Pro: General programs paid with taxes like healthcare or education benefit equally any citizen.
1.11.2. Pro: For example, a majority-atheist community would be less likely to vote to subsidize Christian homeless shelters, and vice versa.
1.11.2.1. Con: In this specific example, it would be wise for the politician in charge of this district to simply ask for money to subsidize homeless shelters which had no religious affiliation whatsoever and accepted people of all faiths or creeds. In this way, the politician is forced to offer solutions that benefit all parties instead of just spend money as he sees fit.
1.11.2.2. Con: There is no reason to assume that, provided a Christian homeless center does a good job helping people and is not just used to proselytize, tax payers would deny money to it just as a matter of personal belief.
1.11.2.2.1. Con: If we reverse the roles \(how likely would it be for a Christian community to fund an atheist homeless center\), it becomes more clear that government funding for useful potentially organizations would balance on the tip of public preference.
1.11.2.2.2. Pro: Several of the [largest charities](https://www.forbes.com/top-charities/list/#tab:rank) in the US are nowadays religious or have religious origins, and they manage to attract big contributions.
1.12. Pro: People may feel less hostile towards taxation if they have more control over what their money goes to.
1.12.1. Pro: Trust in the taxation system may contribute to less tax avoidance.
1.12.1.1. Con: Tax avoidance would still happen.
1.12.1.1.1. Con: No solution can or should be expected to be one hundred percent effective.  The incentivizing interest would still be toward active participation and contribution.
1.12.1.2. Pro: In societies with high level of social trust, tax avoidance is less likely to happen according to [research](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.998.4386&rep=rep1&type=pdf).
1.12.2. Con: People may resent being forced to jump through extraneous hoops, instead of simply controlling their own money, on their own. In this instance, government serves zero benefit, and only complicates the process.
1.12.3. Con: People may also feel even more hostile if they want taxes allocated to one particular matter and the result is different from their priorities.
1.12.3.1. Pro: With [40%](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2015/04/10/5-facts-on-how-americans-view-taxes/) of US citizens considering that “they pay more than their fair share” compared to what they obtain from the federal government and just [45%](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2015/04/10/5-facts-on-how-americans-view-taxes/) of Americans giving favorable ratings to the Internal Revenue Service \(IRS\) the  number of people who feel hostile about taxes is already significant.
1.12.3.1.1. Pro: Even politicians like Texas Gov. Rick Perry have regarded Social Security as a [Ponzi scheme](http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2013/04/18/taxation-is-theft-so-why-do-americans-put-up-with-it.html) and many support the ideas that [taxation is theft](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taxation_as_theft).
1.12.3.2. Con: Precisely more transparency and having a say in where taxes are allocated can help reduce the distrust in taxation.
1.12.3.3. Con: They can express their hostility by withholding their taxes from the things that make them upset in the first place, or withhold them from being spent altogether.
1.12.4. Pro: This allows for more political engagement from the public, making them more aware of the full extent of their state's dealings.
1.13. Con: Public money would be wasted in advertising campaigns as government departments fight over funds.
1.13.1. Con: In fact, advertising costs would be factored into the benefit of the project to taxpayers. Why spend money advertising on things nobody wants? Voters would choose how much money states or representatives could spend as well. Waste would actually be reduced due to cost/return analysis.
1.13.1.1. Con: This assumes no intra-government rivalry. A less effective project may still fight hard for funding if its relevant bureaucrats consider it valuable to their careers.
1.13.1.2. Pro: Campaign finance laws help to restrain excessive expenditure in elections; similar rules could be enforced on these more project-oriented campaigns.
1.13.2. Con: Advertising for political policies and projects would create more jobs.
1.13.2.1. Con: So would most public spending. Increasing police numbers creates jobs, but with an additional benefit of lowering crime and raising living standards.
1.13.3. Pro: In this [link on the Japanese implementation](https://www.japantimes.co.jp/opinion/2017/03/11/editorials/review-of-the/#.Wlzo4ahl-Ul), it is remarked that some municipalities award prizes to donors, to the extent that 38% of the value of all donations was spent by municipalities on the prizes meant to attract such money.
1.13.3.1. Con: If 38% of donations are spent on winning more donations, that means the state has a 63% profit margin. That's actually a great rate of return.
1.13.3.1.1. Con: If only half of the received money is spent in actual services for citizens, that is not a great rate of return.
1.13.3.1.2. Con: In a normal taxation system, a very small proportion of tax revenue is spent on tax collection, so 38% is a drastic downgrade.
1.13.3.1.3. Pro: 38% of the donations received\( ¥63.3 billion\) were spent buying gifts to donors, even 48% when related expenses are also counted. That means that "municipalities ended up with only about half the donated amount for use on their administrative projects and services for local residents".