Discussion Title: Should Conduct in Virtual Reality be Subject to the Laws of the Real World?

1. If fully immersive virtual reality is developed it should be subject to all of our existing laws.
1.1. Con: If a particular virtual reality allows for crimes to be performed, users have consented to that possibility.
1.1.1. Con: It is possible for you to be raped if you are walking down a dangerous street in the middle of the night; however, if you still choose to do so and are raped, you by no means consented to that action. To state that individuals consent to violations of their rights merely by entering a dangerous place is victim blaming of the highest order and a very dangerous mentality.
1.1.1.1. Con: In the context of virtual world, a user could be said to have consented to the possibility of a harmful assault because they had the option to instead enter a virtual world where that action would be literally impossible \(due to the rules of the world/simulation\).
1.1.1.1.1. Con: Entering a space where assault is possible is not consenting to that assault.
1.1.2. Pro: It would be a waste of public resources to regulate private behavior between informed and consenting adults.
1.1.3. Pro: Virtual realities are not the real world, and should not be subject to its laws. Such a virtual experience should naturally be customizable; the user able to disable things such as pain and death, if death is part of the virtual experience at all. There should be no reason that any particular action has to be a part of a virtual experience, or that any user has to participate in it. Just because one may be fully immersed does not mean every possible action may be done.
1.1.4. Pro: Most virtual realities would institute a reasonable set of laws and rules such that the most basic forms of laws governing physical reality would be enforced regardless. This means those entering into the truly lawless virtual spaces would be specifically choosing them, and therefore consenting to the consequences.
1.1.4.1. Con: A crime that exploits technology is still executed in the real world and subject to jurisdiction.
1.1.4.2. Pro: Real-world laws aim to protect everyone — regardless of whether they need or want it — because nobody can meaningfully 'opt-out' of society. Unlike in the real world, virtual reality offers people the option to make their own tradeoff as to the level of safety and regulation they are willing to give up for various freedoms.
1.1.4.3. Con: Instituting and enforcing a reasonable set of laws within a virtual reality might be a large undertaking as it requires the administrators of that reality to act as the police. This is a drain on resources, and better left to government itself.
1.1.4.4. Con: Much like the 'Wild West', the frontiers of virtual reality that offer the most exciting possibilities might be in effect lawless because they have yet to form community norms. The draw of these spaces means that people might seek them out despite their lawlessness \(not because of it\).
1.1.4.4.1. Con: People in virtual reality will have grown up in physical reality, and thereby already learnt the norms and values, as well as rules and laws, of their own society. There is no need for developing a new moral code when the people in virtual reality are ones who already follow one.
1.1.4.4.1.1. Con: Moral codes depend to a degree on one's environment. New ideas or technologies, say birth control or feminism, reshape moral norms. The drastically different nature of virtual reality is likely to do the same.
1.1.4.4.1.2. Con: Over time people in virtual reality may have spent less and less of their time growing up in physical reality; the moral codes of virtual behaviour are likely to evolve to suit the medium rather than rely on those of the real world.
1.1.4.4.2. Con: Yet a tradeoff is still being made. People are still choosing to enter such virtual realities despite the knowledge that no laws exist.
1.1.5. Con: Allowing for the possibility of various actions does not mean that people automatically consent to all possible actions. For example, the manufacturer of a firearm does not consent for it to be used for homicide.
1.1.5.1. Pro: Virtual worlds such as Second Life limit what a person is capable of \(either through rules or by design\) but do not force a player to do anything. They simply create a world in which players can, quite literally, live out a second life. Players have therefore not meaningfully opted into having their virtual life destroyed for no reason.
1.1.5.2. Con: The panoply of possible rules available across all virtual realities represent a wide variety of different regulatory settings. When a user deliberately chooses a given virtual reality over another because of what actions are allowed they have meaningfully consented to the possibility of said actions.
1.1.5.3. Con: Manufacturers of firearms do not consent to them being used for homicide because doing so would open them up to lawsuits, or at least moral condemnation. This is not analogous to the harms of a particular virtual reality.
1.1.5.4. Pro: Given the boundless nature of virtual realities, it is impossible for individuals to think of and subsequently consent to \(in any meaningful way\) all the possible crimes that they could be victims of.
1.1.5.5. Pro: Consenting to the possibility of action is probably not meaningful if users believe there is a very low chance of that action happening.
1.1.6. Con: In the real world if we opt-in to a particular experience we still maintain agency over our body and its actions. Virtual reality raises the prospect of experiencing this agency being stripped away from us by the simulation itself; which removes consent in a way not possible in the real world.
1.1.6.1. Pro: Unlike in physical reality, in a virtual reality another user could directly [control the actions of another user's avatar](https://cs.stanford.edu/people/eroberts/cs181/projects/1998-99/controlling-the-virtual-world/history/rape.html). Due to the embodying effect of a virtual avatar this is especially traumatic — it robs a person of agency over their own body not just in controlling what is done to it, but in controlling what the body itself does.
1.1.6.1.1. Pro: People generally use the first person pronoun in describing actions they perform through an avatar, suggesting that \(at least subconsciously\) they consider it to be themselves that is acting within virtual worlds rather than an avatar that they control.
1.1.6.1.1.1. Con: People also use the first pronoun when describing actions they perform with the help of tools. For example, one could say "I photographed the sunset." It is preposterous to claim cameras \(or any other tools\) have a right to dignity.
1.1.6.1.2. Pro: Many individuals [do not distinguish](http://www.cyberpsychology.eu/view.php?cisloclanku=2008060901) between themselves and their avatar, and form strong feelings of attachment towards them.
1.1.6.1.3. Pro: Psychological experiments in virtual reality found that users [model their own behaviours after the characteristics of their avatars](https://www.google.com.au/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=2&ved=0ahUKEwiuz9D33r7TAhWFxbwKHYZLDkIQFggtMAE&url=https%3A%2F%2Fvhil.stanford.edu%2Fmm%2F2007%2Fyee-proteus-effect.pdf&usg=AFQjCNEskR7RYjK2d5NIjCOh619qWyEu6Q&sig2=7xkZ-yZCImhL-8S-KLN3DQ&cad=rja) — i.e. subjects embodied in a taller avatar negotiated more aggressively than subjects in a shorter avatar. Experiencing crime in such an embodied manner is likely to lead to behavioural change that may become ingrained.
1.1.6.1.3.1. Pro: Several murder suspects have cited [Grand Theft Auto](http://guardianlv.com/2013/09/grand-theft-auto-drives-8-year-old-to-murder-his-grandmother/) as their motivation to commit murder. Clearly, the decision to kill in a video game has wider implications for decision-making in the real world.
1.1.6.1.3.1.1. Con: [Studies](http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/gaming/long-term-us-study-finds-no-links-between-violent-video-games-and-youth-violence-9851613.html) have shown that there is no correlation between playing violent video games and engaging in real-world violent behavior; thus there is no reason to believe that this would be any different for people who participate in virtual reality.
1.1.6.1.3.1.1.1. Pro: [Research](https://www.polygon.com/2014/9/12/6141515/do-violent-video-games-actually-reduce-real-world-crime) has shown that violent video game sales correlate to a decline in crime rates because they both keep people off the streets as well as provide an outlet for aggression without any real world violence. If this is true, then virtual reality is more likely to cause catharsis in players than to stimulate desire for real world hostility.
1.1.6.1.3.1.1.1.1. Con: The same argument about keeping "people off the streets" can be made with several other activities \(e.g. working longer hours, volunteering, pursuing a hobby, playing a sport...\) that do not involve simulated violence.
1.1.6.1.3.1.1.2. Con: Academic research in this area is divided; several studies show that violent games were likely to increase “[aggressive cognitions and behaviours](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/do-video-games-inspire-violent-behavior/)"; particularly in kids already predisposed to violence. Others found links between "[violent video game use and both increases in aggressive behavior ... and decreases in prosocial behavior, empathy, and moral engagement](http://www.apa.org/news/press/releases/2015/08/violent-video-games.pdf)."
1.1.6.1.3.1.1.3. Con: Fully immersive virtual reality will be more realistic than video games and likely have more of a sense that those around you are real people. It follows that violence in virtual reality, against those real people, could make one more likely to commit violent acts in the real world.
1.1.6.1.3.1.1.3.1. Pro: Full-immersion is different from a typical video game, and getting into the habit of killing makes it easier to kill.
1.1.6.1.3.1.1.3.1.1. Con: This assumes players will not be able to separate their virtual reality habits from their real life behaviors. Just because it is easy to make a choice within the confines of a video game \(no matter how realistic\), it does not mean one would be comfortable acting similarly in the real world.
1.1.6.1.3.1.1.3.2. Con: This assumes that realism would make it more enjoyable for the average player to kill in virtual reality. In fact, the opposite might happen, effectively dissuading someone from participating in simulated violence altogether.
1.1.6.1.3.1.1.3.3. Pro: Much of the violence in video games involves hurting or killing [non-player characters](https://www.techopedia.com/definition/1920/non-player-character-npc), rather than the avatars of other players. That latter situation is a more visceral simulation of real violence as the assaulted avatars would move and react as actual people would.
1.1.6.1.3.2. Pro: People who played games in a super-villain role \(as opposed to a superhero role\) [were later more likely to perform unpleasant actions to others in the real world](http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0956797613519271).
1.1.6.1.4. Con: A person can make their avatar exactly how they want them to be, and create a new one whenever they get bored or change their minds. We cannot disassociate from our own bodies to this extent, and therefore a crime against an avatar has far less psychological impact than if it were against a person.
1.1.6.2. Con: The possibility of this happening is still a factor that users can consent to, or not consent to, regardless of how traumatic it is.
1.1.6.2.1. Con: -> See 1.1.5.4.
1.1.7. Pro: Most of today's online games require users to accept an End User License Agreement, which contains explicit rules not only on what users can do with the program, but what they can do within the virtual game world. Virtual realities would likely have similar agreements that dictate their specific standards of conduct.
1.1.7.1. Con: Despite these rules, there exist [Game Masters \(GM’s\)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamemaster) or other entities that are charged with enforcing the rules, neither of which would need to exist if our laws were applied in virtual reality.
1.1.7.1.1. Pro: Since virtual worlds are unable to restrict all actions that they do not want to allow, crimes that people have not consented to can still occur.
1.1.7.1.2. Con: In most games GMs are there to moderate community conduct \(primarily anti-social or unsporting behaviour that is rarely severe enough to be illegal harassment\) and to help deal with the effects of bugs. Neither function is obviated by enforcing laws.
1.1.7.2. Pro: The Second Life community has developed its own set of standards called the “[Big Six](https://secondlife.com/corporate/cs.php)”, which the Terms of Service agreement for Second Life requires users to follow. There is no reason why the communities cannot regulate themselves in a way they see fit.
1.1.8. Pro: In the present day there are many different types of online games that offer a variety of different player experiences and different sets of rules dictating player behaviour. In a world with fully immersive virtual reality, the market of possible experiences would likely be at least as vast, if not significantly more so.
1.1.8.1. Pro: Much as in [Seasteading](https://allenmendenhall.files.wordpress.com/2013/01/my-country-lies-over-the-ocean-seasteading-and-polycentric-law.pdf), people \(users\) are best able to self-actualise when they can opt-in to a set of societal rules that better matches their preferences.
1.1.8.2. Con: The market for 'virtual rules' is unlikely to be one that users can consider freely. As desirable economic or social activities occur in particular virtual realities, users are naturally drawn to those regardless of whether they agree with the rules present.
1.1.8.2.1. Pro: It is unlikely that individuals will be in a position where they can negotiate to change the rules applicable to them, just as consumers are unable to negotiate standard form contracts currently due to a disparity of bargaining power. There is literally only a choice to join the virtual community and agree to the terms governing the environment, or forgo the opportunity of participating in the virtual world in the first place.
1.1.8.2.2. Con: -> See 1.1.4.4.2.
1.1.9. Con: The power of those who control virtual realities is likely to be at least somewhat limited — automatic sanctions or limitations to user actions are unlikely to be able to prevent all forms of crime. Thus even if users opt-in to a 'safe' virtual reality, that safety is not completely guaranteed, and may need to be occasionally enforced or deterred through legal means.
1.1.9.1. Pro: The maximum punishment that administrators of a virtual reality may have available to them is to ban a user from that experience. For particularly severe transgressions that may not be enough and the legal system can provide a more powerful set of possible punishments.
1.1.9.2. Con: Automatic sanctions or limitations are not the only way to discourage user actions; the administrators of that virtual reality can directly enforce rules themselves \(just as a government would in this context\).
1.2. Pro: Allowing crimes to be performed in virtual reality will encourage those same crimes in reality.
1.2.1. Con: The ability of virtually role-play as 'evil' gives people a chance to realize it is not for them. In reality, 'trying out' evil cannot be reversed due to its immediate consequences and because the loss of social reputation tends to tie people to their past actions.
1.2.2. Con: Individuals can carry out their sexual desires and fantasies in virtual realities, reducing the amount of sexual crime that happens in physical reality.
1.2.2.1. Pro: Pedophiles will be able to act out on their desires in virtual realities rather than in physical reality. This would reduce the harm posed to children.
1.2.2.1.1. Con: Allowing pedophiles to carry out their fantasies in virtual reality would embolden them to carry out actual child abuse in the physical world.
1.2.2.1.1.1. Con: [Research](http://bigthink.com/against-the-new-taboo/virtual-child-porn-and-paedophilia) indicates that when there are proper controls in place, there is little connection between virtual child pornography and incidents of actual child sexual abuse.
1.2.2.2. Pro: More recent [studies](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/the-sunny-side-of-smut/) have shown that exposure to pornography actually makes people less likely to commit sexual crimes by offering them a private means of acting upon their deviant desires.
1.2.2.3. Con: Sex crimes are often about [power rather than desire](https://sapac.umich.edu/article/52), and it is unclear if potential abusers would be able to replicate that feeling of power over their virtual victims, especially if they are NPCs.
1.2.2.3.1. Con: Power relationships are based on interpersonal social interactions; their force would be equally felt even in a virtual medium.
1.2.2.3.2. Con: Following the release of Grand Theft Auto V, users created a mod that allowed them to [virtually rape](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/08/12/grand-theft-auto-rape_n_5671400.html) other players' avatars. Given the mod went viral, it is reasonable to assume that it provided users with a satisfying feeling of power over those they virtually attacked. This is likely to only increase with virtual reality.
1.2.2.3.2.1. Con: The mod could have gone viral because the feeling of virtually raping an avatar was enjoyable for reasons other than feeling power over another avatar.
1.2.2.3.3. Con: A character in the virtual game LambdaMOO '[raped](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Rape_in_Cyberspace)' other characters in the game. This was emotionally traumatic for both the individual whose character was assaulted and those who saw it happen on screen.
1.2.2.3.4. Pro: Wielding power over another person is pursued because the victim has their own agency and power that is being suppressed and controlled. The lack of intelligence and agency in NPCs means that they are unlikely to provide this feeling of dominance.
1.2.2.4. Con: Sexual crime in virtual reality would still be extremely damaging to survivors and witnesses of such crimes.
1.2.2.4.1. Pro: Just the possibility of sexual violence makes women and sexual minorities feel threatened and unsafe. To allow it in virtual reality without clear consequences reproduces and perpetuates this element of rape culture.
1.2.2.4.2. Pro: -> See 1.2.2.3.3.
1.2.2.4.3. Pro: Virtual rape has also been known to take place in [online chatrooms](http://people.terry.uga.edu/dawndba/4500CyberRape.html), where one user witnessed a group of people engaging in a violent virtual gang-rape and was extremely disturbed by the event.
1.2.2.4.3.1. Pro: The perpetrators justified their actions by saying that they were just playing, as no physical body was being harmed. This excuse will be equally applicable to immersive virtual reality and there must be laws to prevent this.
1.2.2.4.4. Pro: Women have been known to [give up games and and leave gaming communities](https://www.thecut.com/2014/08/even-in-fantasy-women-cant-escape-rape.html) after the trauma of a sexual attack within a video game or virtual world.
1.2.3. Pro: Those who commit crimes in virtual realities could normalise that behaviour and commit them in the real world.
1.2.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.2.1.1.
1.2.3.2. Con: -> See 1.1.6.1.3.1.1.
1.2.4. Con: -> See 1.1.6.1.3.1.1.
1.2.5. Pro: If there were few consequences for impulsive behaviour \(say, lashing out violently\) in virtual reality, it may systemically loosen our self-control instincts in both physical and virtual reality.
1.2.5.1. Pro: Because virtual reality is a simulation, there are fewer barriers to performing an action than in physical reality. This reduces the distance between thought and action, reducing [the "vero-autononomy" that checks our impulses and urges](http://www.blogs.uni-mainz.de/fb05philosophieengl/files/2013/07/Metzinger_RG_2013_penultimate.pdf).
1.2.5.2. Con: Even if laws do not apply to virtual reality, it does not necessarily follow that there will be no consequences for lashing out violently. It seems likely that others would respond in kind, since they are not bound by the law either.
1.2.5.3. Con: The law would still act as a strong deterrent against such impulses in the real world, unless a person was so overcome by emotion or impulse that they disregarded the consequences. In this case, the effect of virtual reality is likely marginal.
1.2.5.3.1. Con: The parent outlines that the lack of consequences in virtual realities are what train us to be less restrained by emotion or impulse. As people spend more and more time in virtual reality this systemic erosion of self-control is less and less likely to have only a marginal effect of how we interact in the real world.
1.2.5.3.2. Con: Self-control has rational and subconscious elements. In particular the parent study talks of the latter kind: the vero-autonomous impulse that reflexively checks us from making a certain physical action such as lashing out. If virtual realities weaken this impulse, the presence of the law will not do anything to reinforce it as it is a subconscious act.
1.2.6. Pro: Virtual realities allow people to 'practice' a crime and boosts their confidence in being able to perform it in the real world.
1.2.6.1. Con: To require virtual agencies to enforce virtual reality will strengthen and train our real life law enforcement agencies.
1.2.6.2. Con: Equally, committing the crime in virtual reality could bring home the reality of what it entails far more than merely contemplating it would. As such this might easily discourage many individuals from initially committing actual crimes.
1.2.6.3. Pro: Practicing a crime in virtual reality would provide clear evidence of agreement, intent, and/or an overt act necessary to file conspiracy charges and must be subject to our existing laws.
1.2.6.4. Pro: If unchecked, virtual realities will provide places where potential mass shooters or paramilitary forces have access to military-style training.
1.2.6.5. Pro: Virtual technology may soon be used to [recreate crime scenes](http://www.citylab.com/crime/2015/03/the-oculus-rift-and-the-courtroom/385351/) for use by police and juries. If governmental institutions can use virtual reality to recreate past crime scenes, there is no reason why individuals won't be able to use virtual realities to practice future crimes.
1.2.6.6. Pro: Virtual realities will offer an infinite number of chances to redo a crime until the criminal picks the strategy most likely to succeed.
1.2.6.6.1. Con: Virtual reality will not be able to realistically simulate the myriad of possible reactions of real citizens and police.
1.2.7. Con: Virtual drugs could be extremely beneficial to users of virtual reality without the harmful side-effects of physical drugs; it would be immoral to restrict them.
1.2.7.1. Pro: Laws restricting drug use in the real world are unjust to begin with, and therefore should not be enforced either in the virtual world or the real world.
1.2.7.2. Pro: Virtual drugs could emulate the psychological effects of drugs without the [harmful physical side-effects](https://www.verywell.com/health-effects-of-illegal-drugs-67033).
1.2.7.3. Con: Even if virtual drugs have positive effects, it is quite possible that users will try to obtain illicit substances in physical reality as they are normalised by use in virtual reality.
1.2.7.3.1. Con: There will be no need to obtain real drugs given they have access to virtual drugs.
1.2.7.4. Pro: The availability of safe and free virtual drugs would discourage people from buying or using real drugs; reducing drug-related violence and removing revenue from drug traffickers in the real world.
1.2.7.5. Con: It is unclear whether virtual drugs would be outlawed by our existing laws. At best they replicate the experience of real-drugs through an emulation of the senses, but they obviously lack the chemical component of an intense 'high' and any element of physical dependency.
1.2.7.6. Con: If the feeling of 'high' one gets from consuming physical drugs is successfully replicated by virtual drugs, then harmful addictions can be possible.
1.2.7.6.1. Pro: Whilst it is unlikely the use of virtual drugs would simulate the exact effects of physical addiction and dependency that users of drugs like heroin experience, they could accurately simulate the physical and mental effects of these drugs, thus creating a psychological addiction that could still be life-consuming.
1.2.7.6.2. Con: Addictions to virtual drugs would still be considerably better than addictions to physical drugs as the former would not include [harmful physical side-effects](https://www.verywell.com/health-effects-of-illegal-drugs-67033).
1.2.8. Con: Aggressive tendencies can be acted out in virtual realities, reducing the desire to commit violent crimes in physical reality.
1.2.8.1. Pro: Anti-social behavior stems from deep emotional suppression. Role playing is a well known form of therapy. As long as there are no victims, and everyone remembers it's a simulation, it could be therapeutic. Even better if everyone else is a Sim until they get over themselves. With VR there is enough 'room' for everyone to have their own universe and not impose on others.
1.2.8.2. Con: Acting out some desires in virtual reality does not necessarily cause someone to lose the need to do this in physical reality. For example, popular video games allow people to kill civilians en masse yet gun murder still is widespread.
1.2.8.2.1. Con: While it is true that gun violence is widespread, this does not mean that some individuals have not been helped by the existence of popular games that allow shootings. [Studies](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/video-games/8798927/Violent-video-games-reduce-crime.html) [suggest](https://www.polygon.com/2014/9/12/6141515/do-violent-video-games-actually-reduce-real-world-crime) that the rate of gun violence would likely be higher without the existence of these games.
1.2.8.3. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.1.3.1.1.1.
1.2.8.4. Pro: Certain crimes are the result of [impulse control disorders](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impulse_control_disorder), such as pyromania and kleptomania. If the constant need to commit arson or theft can be carried out in virtual reality without harm, then those crimes don't need to be committed in the real world.
1.2.8.4.1. Con: Allowing people with these disorders to carry out criminal acts in virtual reality would remove the incentive to treat their disorders or get them under control; this could further risk crimes in the real world.
1.2.9. Pro: Social norms evolve through actions and their consequences. If virtual reality does not have a means to restrict or punish malevolent actions, it allows people to develop and reinforce personality traits \(Machiavellianism, psychopathy, misogyny\) that lead them to disregard the feelings and property of others.
1.2.9.1. Pro: If people commit crimes in virtual realities without any consequences, they could believe that they can get away with committing those crimes in the real world.
1.2.9.1.1. Con: It is highly unlikely that the lack of criminal laws in virtual reality would lead people to believe that there are no longer laws in the real world.
1.2.9.1.2. Con: When people travel they are capable of understanding and abiding by different criminal codes even if they are based on value systems different to their own. The same would apply to physical and virtual realities, where differing norms around crime can be respected equally.
1.2.9.2. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.1.3.
1.2.9.3. Con: Consequences in a virtual reality are very different to those in a physical reality, and thus social norms would evolve differently.
1.2.9.3.1. Pro: Negative consequences in a virtual reality have no real permanence, and could theoretically be reversed at will - this lack of real consequence will have an unpredicatable effect on the way that social norms develop.
1.2.9.4. Con: Virtual realities could easily create ways to restrict or punish malevolent actions without subjecting users to "our existing laws".
1.2.9.4.1. Pro: Many anarchist groups apply the principles of [Transformative Justice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transformative_justice) to conflicts and find solutions that all parties find beneficial.
1.2.9.4.2. Pro: If someone was causing extensive damage to the quality of life within a virtual reality, it seems likely that other players or administrators would naturally want  to punish or exile them from that virtual reality.
1.2.9.5. Pro: Enacting misogynistic actions in virtual reality is likely to influence people's behaviour in physical reality.
1.2.9.5.1. Pro: Repeated exposure to [pornography](http://www.dianarussell.com/porn_as_a_cause_of_rape.html), for instance, is associated with harmful conduct towards women because it legitimizes violent attitudes and behaviors.
1.2.9.5.1.1. Con: -> See 1.2.2.2.
1.2.9.5.1.2. Con: Pornography is sanctioned by existing law in many nations, so it and other similar misogynistic images or behaviors would not be banned under existing law. The pornography industry would be one of the first adopters of Virtual Reality [as it was in film and VCR technology](http://www.cnn.com/2010/TECH/04/23/porn.technology/index.html).
1.2.9.5.1.2.1. Con: Virtual reality without laws would allow for far more harmful misogyny than pornography; this would likely be linked with more harmful behaviour towards women outside.
1.2.9.5.1.2.1.1. Pro: Virtual rape is [increasingly common](https://www.inter-disciplinary.net/wp-content/uploads/2009/06/incest-sexual-violence-and-rape-in-video-games.pdf) in games, and is likely to be prevalent in immersive virtual reality.
1.2.9.5.1.2.1.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.2.3.3.
1.2.9.5.1.2.1.1.2. Pro: In a disturbing new trend, “Grand Theft Auto V” gamers are [virtually raping](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/08/12/grand-theft-auto-rape_n_5671400.html) the avatars controlled by other people playing online. They then post videos of their exploits on YouTube.
1.2.9.5.1.2.1.1.3. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.1.
1.2.9.5.1.2.1.1.4. Pro: -> See 1.2.2.4.1.
1.2.9.5.1.2.1.1.5. Pro: -> See 1.2.2.4.3.
1.2.9.5.1.2.1.2. Pro: Harassment, threats, stalking and assault are all forms of gendered violence that are punishable under law; the implementation of these laws would go a long way in fighting misogyny online.
1.2.9.5.2. Con: Misogynistic behavior is not subject to existing law until it becomes violent, harassing, or discriminatory in nature. It is unclear how anti-misogyny protocols will be implemented and enforced within a virtual reality.
1.2.9.5.2.1. Con: -> See 1.2.9.5.1.2.1.2.
1.2.9.5.3. Pro: Female gamers are already [harassed and abused](https://www.thecut.com/2014/08/even-in-fantasy-women-cant-escape-rape.html) through multi-player games. Abusers know that they are abusing real people, but feel emboldened to do so by the distance and anonymity given to them by the game. This likely affects how they treat women in reality.
1.3. Pro: Fewer people will enter virtual realities if they believe that they can be subject to crime without legal recourse.
1.3.1. Con: Any virtual reality system allowing adverse effects to the user \(in real life\) would already be self-limiting, since few people would subject themselves to that given the availability of equivalent but safer alternatives.
1.3.2. Con: If this became a significant obstacle to virtual reality adoption there would likely be 'virtual havens' which, like tax havens, would sit outside major jurisdictions and deliberately provide very few laws and restrictions on virtual reality.
1.3.2.1. Con: This is not a particularly good reason not to have laws in the first place, just like the existence of tax havens is not a good reason to not have taxes. If the effects of not having laws are harmful, then having them would still shield a majority of users from these effects.
1.3.3. Pro: In the physical world we expect a degree of privacy \(or at least expect to be free from overt surveillance\) in our homes, workplaces, etc. If we largely displace the physical with the virtual, strong laws will be needed to ensure that at least some privacy norms are upheld.
1.3.3.1. Con: Privacy norms should be upheld in the private spaces \(e.g. our homes\) or in the public spaces that are unavoidable \(e.g. parks\). Virtual realities are not strictly private and are spaces users must opt in to; thus they have less need for strict laws to ensure privacy.
1.3.3.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.
1.3.3.2. Pro: Unlike traditional forms of surveillance, virtual surveillance captures not only a record of our environment, but also a vast trove of biometric data about how we use our bodies and what we feel.
1.3.3.2.1. Pro: Virtual reality already tracks eye movement; it could easily also track facial gestures and other low-level bodily movements \(or 'motor intentions'\) that subconsciously express our thoughts and feelings.
1.3.3.3. Pro: Those who run virtual reality communities could very easily hide the fact that they are constantly violating the privacy of others.
1.3.3.3.1. Pro: The power of those who control virtual realities is especially pernicious because there is no way for users to prove that their virtual reality is not being manipulated according to some ulterior motive.
1.3.4. Pro: Without a way to legally prove and enforce one's identity, virtual realities would be highly prone to fraud.
1.3.4.1. Pro: In virtual reality, it would be easy to 'clone' the avatar, or even speech, of another person.
1.3.4.2. Con: Identity theft involves stealing an individual's personal information in order to commit [crimes](http://www.identitytheft.org.uk) such as financial fraud, entering \(or exiting\) a country illegally, trafficking drugs, smuggling other substances, and laundering money. Stealing the identity of an avatar is not equivalent to stealing the actual identity of an individual.
1.3.4.2.1. Con: In the case of identity theft aimed at politicians or celebrities, the intent of the crime is specifically to impersonate them. In virtual reality, where the avatar is the sum total of one's identity, identity theft is likely to become much more impactful.
1.3.4.2.1.1. Con: People will not equate the actions of an avatar to a person in physical reality regardless of the similarities between the two; they will know that anyone could have created the avatar.
1.3.4.3. Con: If this was a serious worry for many people, it is very likely that a majority of virtual reality communities would themselves provide a robust set of protections to minimise the likelihood of this kind of identity theft happening in the first place, and increase the likelihood of it being eventually caught if it did happen.
1.3.4.4. Pro: In virtual reality, the most valuable asset one holds is their identity; in the same way that one's body is their most fundamentally valuable asset in the real world.
1.3.5. Con: If there is sufficient demand for virtual realities with strong laws and methods for recourse then those virtual realities will be created and be popular. There is no need to apply this standard to virtual reality as whole.
1.3.5.1. Pro: Each virtual reality should be free to define and enforce its own laws independently; there is no need for overarching regulations.
1.3.5.1.1. Pro: Assuming entering and leaving a virtual reality is a voluntary act, and that the rules of each virtual reality are explicit, entering a lawless VR is an informed individual decision.
1.3.5.1.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.
1.3.5.1.2. Pro: Our existing laws have been accumulated over centuries. They are often outdated and infested by religious concerns and matters of morality and personal taste and are largely enforced out of habit rather than because of their grounding in logic and common sense. Yes, VR needs to be regulated, but not with all our existing laws.
1.3.5.1.2.1. Con: It could be that because our laws accumulated over centuries that they should be applied to any fully immersive VR. The claim that laws are often outdated and infested by religious concerns is a subjective and political one and which laws to keep and which to discard is an old and sometimes violent fight. Forcing VR to start from scratch will heat up this old fight in both reality and VR. Current laws have generated a relative peace in our society and should be transferred to VR.
1.3.5.1.2.2. Pro: Existing laws are part of our conditioning: this works against "objective" thinking and those who want to change the system.
1.3.5.1.3. Con: A fully immersive virtual reality is directly parallel to the reality in which we live. If our laws should not apply to a parallel universe where human beings must face all of the same moral dilemmas, then there is no inherent morality to our laws. If there is no inherent morality to our laws, the argument against the inevitable few who wish to bring the lawlessness and suffering of the parallel universe to our reality will be logically and rhetorically weakened.
1.3.5.1.4. Pro: The formation of an overarching government is a necessary solution to problems that are rooted in the scarcity of shared physical resources, such as land. In a virtual reality there is no need to regulate competing interests and antisocial actions because people can always move to a new virtual reality where those are not present.
1.3.5.1.4.1. Pro: For there to be a tragedy of the commons, the commons need to be a non-renewable and non-replaceable resource. The 'virtual commons' is neither; users are free to move to new worlds if their current one is not offering them what they want.
1.3.5.1.4.2. Con: While this might not justify government intervention into enforcing property crimes in virtual reality, the prospect of personal and psychological harms is still just as present as in the real world. These require a 'universal enforcer' like a government to ensure safety.
1.3.5.1.5. Pro: The ability of governments to impose laws on a group of people derives from the consent of those people. Since virtual realities will draw from people all over the world, the only legitimate laws are those that the virtual community decides for itself.
1.3.5.1.5.1. Pro: Morality is varied and relative, and should not be determined by laws or the government. The creator or owner of such a world may create and enforce rules, but they should not be predetermined by the real-world government.
1.3.5.1.5.2. Con: Agreeing to the laws of servers' host nations in the terms and conditions of the virtual reality software constitutes an active consent to those laws even stronger than a citizen's merely tacit consent to the laws of their birth nation.
1.3.5.1.5.3. Pro: Following the [social contract theory of governance](http://www.iep.utm.edu/soc-cont/), citizens tacitly consent to government power because they have used its benefits and cannot easily opt-in to a new government. In virtual worlds neither of these factors apply.
1.3.5.1.5.3.1. Con: By gaining protection from crime, individuals in virtual reality will have used the benefits of the government.
1.3.5.1.5.4. Pro: Democratic governments are essentially monopolies that aim to please a majority of the populace in order to ensure their election. Virtual reality should be free to allow people to opt-in to whatever form of governance \(or lack thereof\) suits them because there is no need to have a single government ruling over a distinct population.
1.3.5.1.5.5. Pro: Democratic governments exist because of the historical assent of its citizens to its existence and ongoing participation in the democratic process. To impose our current forms of government on a fundamentally new world and society is illegitimate.
1.3.5.1.5.5.1. Con: A virtual reality is only 'new' in its code and artificial creations. The people in it will be citizens who live under the existing laws of the real world; it is not imperialism to require them to do the same in virtual reality.
1.3.5.1.6. Pro: -> See 1.1.4.
1.3.5.1.7. Con: The existence of spaces, digital or otherwise, where laws do not apply, would erode state sovereignty, which is [based on the Rule of Law](http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199267880.001.0001/acprof-9780199267880-chapter-7).
1.3.5.1.7.1. Con: Should a lawless virtual reality be unpleasant to the user, it would actually reinforce their support for traditional sovereign states.
1.3.5.1.7.2. Con: The common conception of state sovereignty was established centuries ago and is obsolete in an era where new virtual reality 'states' can be created in a short span of time, and in an ad-hoc manner.
1.3.5.1.7.2.1. Pro: State sovereignty may never have been a totally coherent way of looking at governance: between families, businesses, subcultures, and so on, most people are beholden to several conflicting sets of expectations with accompanying sanctions, both to varying degrees of explicitness. The information age may only be widening faults that were previously small enough to ignore.
1.3.5.1.7.3. Pro: In traditional political philosophy, states rely on a '[monopoly of violence](https://www.boundless.com/sociology/textbooks/boundless-sociology-textbook/government-15/politics-power-and-authority-112/authority-and-legitimate-violence-621-8983/)' in order to have legitimacy. If states are unable to enforce and maintain this monopoly in virtual realities, their legitimacy is reduced.
1.3.5.1.7.3.1. Con: It seems implausible that individuals, after being able to commit a crime in a virtual reality, will start to ignore the authority of the state. Individuals can distinguish between a lawless virtual reality in which they have unlimited freedom, and physical reality where checks and balances and legal deterrence exists.
1.3.5.1.7.4. Pro: If more and more people spend the majority of time in virtual realities, it diminishes the need for physical reality to be governed and regulated extensively; reducing the power and presence of the state in our lives.
1.3.5.1.7.5. Con: There is no reason why existence of spaces not controlled by a given government undermines the concept of state sovereignty in general. Many of these kinds of spaces \(Antarctica, international waters, space, etc\) already exist.
1.3.5.1.7.6. Pro: If a person successfully spends a significant fraction of their time in lawless or self-regulating virtual spaces, they may believe that traditional forms of top-down governance are unnecessary or ineffective.
1.3.5.1.7.6.1. Con: If spending time in successful anarchistic spaces convinces more people that top-down governance is ineffective, this is a solid argument against top-down governance, rather than a reason to keep people out of these spaces.
1.3.5.1.7.6.2. Con: Virtual realities which are meant to be lawless will in no way be analogous to physical reality. Therefore, no one will assume that what works in a virtual reality will work in physical reality.
1.3.5.1.7.6.2.1. Pro: Lawless virtual realities will have rampant crime and mayhem within them, but these crimes will have few consequences beyond the death of an avatar or loss of virtual money. Individuals would not want the same lawlessness to be replicated in physical reality where the consequences would be much worse.
1.3.5.1.7.6.2.2. Pro: Most virtual realties that are meant to be lawless will be similar to [games](https://mygaming.co.za/news/pc/115039-awesome-virtual-reality-games-coming-in-2017.html) being designed for virtual reality right now. These are likely to be set in unrealistic settings \(an alien planet, post-apocalyptic earth\) and therefore it will not change people's beliefs that they need a government in physical reality.
1.3.5.1.7.6.3. Con: Most virtual realities will have a set of rules enforced by the moderators that every individual has to follow. Just because the laws of physical reality are not being enforced does not mean the virtual reality is completely lawless.
1.3.5.1.8. Con: The [adoption of consumer technologies is extremely rapid](http://www.asymco.com/2013/11/18/seeing-whats-next-2/); much faster than changes in governance. To allow all virtual worlds to self-govern is to rush headfirst into profound societal change without any form of safety net.
1.3.5.1.8.1. Pro: Virtual reality technology risks potential adverse effects on [the psychosocial makeup of society](http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/frobt.2016.00003/full); these need to be constrained in a rational and evidence-based manner.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1. Pro: Our experience of our body, and human cognition itself, evolved over millions of years in response to a relatively stable set of environmental conditions. Virtual reality offers a whole new set of possible environments to which we are not mentally adapted.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.1. Con: This assumes that individuals will stay in virtual reality from a sufficiently early age and for long enough for it to impact development of human cognition. Human cognition in children is developed [sufficiently](http://www.learningrx.com/4-cognitive-stages-for-child-development-faq.htm) at the age of 11. It is unlikely children of this age or under it will spend a majority of their time in virtual reality.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2. Con: Placing legal limits on these technologies means limiting their vast and unknown potential for positive change. We cannot know that our current laws are the best possible ones to live under.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.1. Pro: Virtual reality technologies offer a radical escapism because they can simulate experiences that are not possible, practical, or affordable in the real world.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2. Pro: Virtual realities could be used to test out new models of organizing society. Imposing existing laws on such experiments would defeat their purpose.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2.1. Con: Many previous [social experiments](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2013/nov/01/commune-childhood-austria-friedrichshof) have caused significant psychological harm. There is no reason to believe that this harm would not also exist in a virtual reality.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2.1.1. Con: Testing out models of organising society in an organic and voluntary manner is quite different to deliberately designing social experiments designed to investigate extreme psychological phenomena.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2.1.2. Pro: The social experiment [known as the Third Wave](http://www.thewavehome.com/1976_The-Third-Wave_story.htm) turned a portion of a high school into an environment similar to a fascist state.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2.1.3. Pro: The Stanford Prison Experiment notoriously [convinced participants to torture each other](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanford_prison_experiment).
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2.2. Pro: Many anarchists believe that the laws of our world are harmful and oppressive, and as such a world existing without any laws would be an improvement.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2.2.1. Con: Anarchism is a fringe political movement whose views align with a tiny fraction of the population, and as such their opinions are not relevant to public policy.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2.2.1.1. Con: Anarchism is not a 'political movement' just as atheism is not a religion. Anarchism is the belief that government has no inherent moral authority to rule over you, just as the pope has no religious authority to rule over you. This was a 'privilege' artificially given to him by other men, just as some other man gave the pope his hat. It means nothing on a religious, spiritual, or scientific sense. It is just an illusion to control people, just like government "authority."
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2.2.1.2. Con: If some individuals desire safe and lawful virtual realities, they can create them. Given the limitless number of potential virtual realities, there is no compelling reason why all of them should be subject to laws.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2.2.1.3. Con: Public opinion should not dictate the law. Anarchists may be few, but they may also be correct.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2.2.2. Pro: The state's [monopoly on violence](https://www.ukessays.com/essays/politics/is-the-modern-state-inherently-oppressive-and-violent-politics-essay.php) is coercive and often used to oppress its citizens.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2.2.3. Pro: -> See 1.2.9.4.1.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.3. Pro: If virtual reality displaces most other forms of media, but is barred from depicting fictional scenarios, we will have marginalised a huge portion of human experience.
1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.3.1. Con: If fictional experiences that are depicted in traditional forms of media cannot be replicated in virtual realities, the latter are unlikely to displace the former as demand for such content will still exist.
1.3.5.1.8.2. Pro: Most people spend their lives experiencing a relatively consistent and stable setting; a setting that millions of years of evolution has adapted us to understand and expect. The unusual contexts of virtual reality, and the possibility of rapidly switching between them, could profoundly change the way we experience the world.
1.3.5.1.8.3. Con: -> See 1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.
1.3.5.1.9. Con: Virtual reality allows for much greater differences in power between individuals, because power is completely defined through software. The power imbalances this enables are potentially much more harmful than in the real world and necessitates that virtual reality be effectively regulated.
1.3.5.1.9.1. Con: Power structures in the real world are inescapable; they affect everyone because no-one can exist outside of their societal relationships and expectations. Power structures in virtual reality are not inescapable: users can always choose to engage with different realities which have different rules and power structures.
1.3.5.1.9.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.
1.3.5.1.9.1.2. Con: Power structures can still be damaging and abusive even if it is possible to escape from them. We treat things like online abuse as seriously as real world abuse, even though notionally victims in these cases could just log in to another a site.
1.3.5.1.9.1.2.1. Pro: Being able to walk away from a behavior does not make it right, nor does it excuse it from moral consideration. If it did, we would not care about cyberbullying, or any form of bullying that does not involve physically restraining a person.
1.3.5.1.9.2. Pro: The online gaming community Steam defines '[admin abuse](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=752725307)' as 'using any admin powers to unfairly increase your chances of winning or performing harmful actions like harassment or metagaming. This could happen in virtual realities and should be governed.
1.3.5.1.9.2.1. Pro: Adminstrators for virtual realities, much like administrators of online games today, will likely have the power to kick out an individual from a virtual reality or change their avatar in any way they want to.
1.3.5.1.9.2.2. Pro: If an admin consistently abuses their power or over-reaches, it is termed '[power-tripping](http://www.springhole.net/writing/power-tripping-game-masters-and-admins.htm)'.
1.3.5.1.9.3. Pro: Virtual reality is especially dangerous for children as we normally restrict their environments to preclude dangerous and troubling experiences. In virtual reality these restrictions become much more difficult to enforce.
1.3.5.1.9.3.1. Pro: As with the internet itself, virtual reality risks exposing children who are not psychologically and neurophysiologically developed to traumas that can have especially profound effects.
1.3.5.1.9.3.1.1. Pro: And just like the internet, TV and any information source, parents/state should step in and enforce some solid boundaries for children's access to that.
1.3.5.1.9.3.2. Con: Virtual reality avatars don't necessarily depict the person controlling them. It would be harder to identify avatars controlled by children, as child-like avatars could be controlled by adult users or vice versa.
1.3.5.1.9.3.2.1. Con: Children can be identified online by the way that they communicate, given their limited life experiences and vocabularies. Even in anonymous chat rooms children are often identified and groomed by predators.
1.3.5.1.9.3.2.2. Pro: If pedophilia is to some extent dependent on a childlike appearance, but that appearance itself no longer means that the person involved is mentally vulnerable and unable to consent \(i.e. a child\), then instances of sexual predation in virtual reality might be much lower.
1.3.5.1.9.3.2.3. Con: Children could witness or suffer traumatic events in virtual reality if other users did not realise their age.
1.3.5.1.9.3.3. Con: Restricting children's actions and access in order to protect them is the job of their parents. It is not a justification for enforcing wide-ranging laws.
1.3.5.1.9.3.3.1. Con: We have laws that govern underage drinking, driving, multiple forms of entertainment \(such as the PEGI and ESRB systems for games\). It appears that current legislation, almost universally agrees that the state should in fact enforce rules on a child's upbringing.
1.3.5.1.9.3.3.2. Con: There is no reason why governments should not assist parents in protecting children. Given that some parents may not understand the possible harms of virtual reality, and that virtual reality may not always be governed perfectly, regulation provides valuable deterrence and recourse.
1.3.5.1.9.4. Pro: It is especially dangerous that governments and organisations can brainwash people by controlling their environment and information intake. Virtual realities would be especially effective at this, and should be regulated to prevent this danger.
1.3.5.1.9.4.1. Pro: Virtual reality offers an unparalleled ability to gaslight someone because there are no limits to how much you can manipulate their environment or deny them agency.
1.3.5.1.9.4.1.1. Pro: Indeed, virtual reality can allow the environment itself to gaslight someone without the need for a person to control the process. For example, some horror games deliberately manipulate one's peripheral vision or have monsters only appear to some players but not others. Similar techniques of perceptual manipulation could be used in a variety of other virtual reality settings.
1.3.5.1.9.4.1.2. Pro: Corporations, political parties, and religious authorities already exert considerable control over our present media. The nature of virtual reality as an easily distributed medium with powerful psychological effects opens up the possibility of these forces [using it for new and especially powerful forms of both mental and behavioral manipulation](http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/frobt.2016.00003/full) that should be regulated.
1.3.5.1.9.4.1.3. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.1.
1.3.5.1.9.4.1.4. Pro: Through environment priming and manipulation, users can be [lead to believe](http://www.susanblackmore.co.uk/reviews/Wegner02.htm) that they consciously performed actions even when someone else was acting in their place.
1.3.5.1.9.4.1.5. Pro: -> See 1.3.3.3.1.
1.3.5.1.9.4.1.6. Con: Gaslighting, in the abstract, is not a crime. To the extent it results in crimes such as harassment or blackmail, this can be prosecuted using existing laws regardless of whether it is in virtual reality or not.
1.3.5.1.9.4.1.6.1. Con: Gaslighting causes an individual to question their own reality, memory, and perceptions. This can have profound psychological consequences in physical reality, and should be illegal even if it does not constitute harassment or blackmail.
1.3.5.1.9.4.1.7. Con: -> See 1.1.6.2.
1.3.5.1.9.4.1.8. Pro: Given that virtual reality has been used in mental health treatment it seems plausible that it could also be a highly effective tool at damaging the psyches of others.
1.3.5.1.9.4.1.8.1. Pro: Virtual reality has been used for decades to [effectively treat mental health](http://www.polygon.com/features/2017/4/7/15205366/vr-danger-close) conditions such as phobias or post-traumatic stress disorder. Clearly it can be used to profoundly affect one's psyche.
1.3.5.1.9.4.1.8.2. Pro: It is plausible that torture in virtual reality will be experienced as equally real if not worse — [bodily measures of stress are already highly responsive to virtual environments even when they do not simulate physical sensations](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=566654.566630).
1.3.5.1.9.4.2. Pro: Those who control a virtual reality can easily isolate, induce dependency, deceive, and threaten users — [the same kind of techniques used to recruit cultists or enforce obedience in the military](http://people.howstuffworks.com/cult4.htm).
1.3.5.1.9.5. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.
1.3.5.1.9.6. Con: This is mitigated by that fact that virtual reality could also create accessible means for individuals to gain this power; such as by creating their own virtual reality and configuring its rules or by taking on an administrative role in other virtual realities.
1.3.5.1.10. Pro: If each virtual reality is governed by a particular country's laws, it is unfair to expect individuals participating in the virtual reality to be familiar with the laws of that country.
1.3.5.1.10.1. Con: Even when travelling, tourists rarely need to do detailed research to understand a new country's laws — it is typically intuitive what they can and cannot do.
1.3.5.1.10.2. Con: Almost all countries agree on a basic subset of the criminal code that prevents people from obvious dangers like murder, theft, assault, and the like.
1.3.5.1.10.3. Con: A supranational governmental body similar to the UN, the ICC, or the WTO could fill the role of a 'universal governor' and legitimately impose laws on a virtual reality populated by people from anywhere on Earth.
1.3.5.1.10.3.1. Pro: The jurisdiction of UN-approved international law is unlimited, and therefore subjecting all virtual realities to these laws would be relatively simple.
1.3.5.1.10.3.1.1. Con: International bodies tend to be ineffective at producing binding punishments that deter bad actors. A virtual reality equivalent would likely be even less effective, given that it would be difficult to apply any enforcement mechanisms — such as sanctions or military action — to virtual worlds.
1.3.5.1.10.3.1.2. Con: The UN only writes and enforces laws that deal with global issues. As such it has a relatively small set of capabilities given the \(relative\) rarity of international crime and disputes. It does not have the institutional resources or will to police small-scale crimes in virtual reality.
1.3.5.1.10.3.2. Con: International bodies are typically created to prevent and mediate conflicts between countries. This will not be required with virtual realities as they will not interact with each other.
1.3.5.1.10.3.2.1. Con: It's likely that — like today's internet — virtual realities will span the globe and share protocols in order to facilitate interaction between users. This sharing of protocols requires, or at least enables, governing bodies.
1.3.5.1.10.3.2.2. Con: Even if that was the original intent of international organisations such as the UN, they now often play a much more expansive role in coordinating between countries on wider issues such as international law, trade, and aid.
1.3.5.1.10.3.3. Con: -> See 1.3.5.1.10.3.1.1.
1.3.5.1.10.3.4. Con: International bodies are often ineffective at governing as they lack strong enforcement mechanisms and rely on the voluntary cooperation of states. For example, the International Criminal Court requires states to voluntarily hand over individuals so that they can be prosecuted in the Court.
1.3.5.1.10.3.4.1. Pro: It is even less likely that such a mechanism will be effective in virtual reality, as infrastructure and companies will be located in countries which may not comply with the international body's rules due to issues of sovereignty.
1.3.5.1.10.3.5. Pro: [INTERPOL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interpol) is an international organisation which seeks to facilitate international police involvement in relation to transnational crimes. If the crime is sufficiently serious, it is possible for agencies to share information with local police forces to secure a conviction for such a crime.
1.3.5.1.10.3.5.1. Con: The types of crimes which would readily be regarded as transnational crimes include international drug trafficking, sex slavery and child trafficking. It is unlikely that these crimes will be committed in virtual reality as they require victims in the physical world.
1.3.5.1.10.3.6. Pro: Countries that share borders typically work towards harmonising their legal codes to make travel and trade easier \(i.e. NAFTA, the EU\). In virtual reality the same incentives would apply regardless of geographic proximity.
1.3.5.1.10.3.6.1. Con: Laws that apply to travel and trade are distinct from criminal codes. Economic harmonisation does not suggest a convergence of criminal laws.
1.3.5.1.10.4. Pro: People in virtual realities could be citizens of many different countries. To subject all of them to one set of laws is a jurisdictional quagmire.
1.3.5.1.10.4.1. Con: -> See 1.3.5.1.10.3.1.
1.3.5.1.10.4.2. Pro: The courts of one country would not be able to sentence an individual from another country, rendering laws unenforceable.
1.3.5.1.10.4.2.1. Pro: A US court, for instance, will not be able to sentence a Chinese citizen, living on Chinese soil, for a crime committed in a virtual reality. The Chinese government will simply not uphold sentences given by US courts.
1.3.5.1.10.4.2.1.1. Con: States will have an incentive to form extradition treaties with each other for crimes committed in virtual reality. This incentive will operate as anyone could be a victim of a crime committed by an individual from a different country and so it would make political sense for states to enable victims to seek justice by seeing perpetrators punished for wrongdoings committed against their civilians.
1.3.5.1.10.4.2.1.2. Pro: Traditional geopolitical issues operating in the physical world such as political tensions between states or recognition of the fairness of the judicial process will impact on whether states are willing to impose sentences from foreign courts on their citizens.
1.3.5.1.10.4.2.1.3. Pro: Most states do not accept criminal sanctions for trials held in the absence of the alleged perpetrator of a crime. This will create a legal problem for any trials occurring in the physical world, and specifically any punishments imposed, without the physical presence of the alleged offender.
1.3.5.1.10.4.2.1.4. Con: In cases of close alliances, states will accept, as a matter of goodwill and reciprocity, sanctions imposed on their citizens.
1.3.5.1.10.4.2.1.4.1. Con: Given most states do not enter into extradition treaties or accept judgements passed by foreign courts for crimes committed in physical reality, there is no reason why states will now do this for virtual reality.
1.3.5.1.10.4.2.2. Pro: Hypothetically, a Chinese woman could operate her business through a Hong Kong Bank, sell her services to companies operating in South Africa, and conduct transactions in a virtual reality whose servers and operators are in California. Situations such as these will be extremely challenging and expensive for legal systems to navigate.
1.3.5.1.10.4.2.3. Con: Sentences do not need to involve extradition or extra-national cooperation to be effective; the sentencing country could ban the person from virtual realities under their jurisdiction and/or confiscate virtual property.
1.3.5.1.10.4.2.4. Con: As each country's citizens spend more and more time in virtual reality it makes more sense to cooperate in sentencing and extradition because there are far more interactions between people of different citizenships.
1.3.5.1.10.4.3. Pro: It will be impossible to decide which country's set of laws will govern a virtual reality.
1.3.5.1.10.4.3.1. Con: Servers hosting websites are [legally](http://www.blogherald.com/2011/07/29/why-where-you-host-your-site-matters-legally/) subject to the country the physical server is located in. It seems plausible that the servers hosting virtual realities would operate in a similar manner and thus create a clear jurisdiction for that particular virtual reality.
1.3.5.1.10.4.3.1.1. Pro: This solves the legal problem of which jurisdiction will have authority over the virtual reality. The laws and courts of the country in which the server is based will function as the laws and courts of the virtual reality.
1.3.5.1.10.4.3.1.2. Con: This is impractical. It is impossible for users to recognize geographical borders in virtual space, or for nations to enforce those borders.
1.3.5.1.10.4.3.1.3. Con: This does not cover instances where virtual reality experiences are [hosted by peer to peer](https://www.gamespot.com/forums/system-wars-314159282/networks-peer-to-peer-servers-vs-client-servers-26276019/) connections rather than a coordinating server.
1.3.5.1.10.4.3.1.3.1. Con: This can be covered by existing legal mechanisms; each user on a peer-to-peer connection would just be subject to the laws of the country their connection originates in.
1.3.5.1.10.4.3.1.4. Con: -> See 1.3.2.
1.3.5.1.10.4.3.2. Con: The choice of which country's laws is unlikely to be a choice; rather it is likely to be a result of where the server, or company, that operates that virtual reality is based.
1.3.5.1.10.4.3.3. Con: According to conflict of laws jurisprudence, 'choice of law' clauses are added to contracts to specify the country or state within a country which is said to be the governing law of the contract. Disputes over the law can be easily remedied by the inclusion of such clauses into the contracts/terms of agreements of each platform.
1.3.5.1.10.4.4. Con: Most people do not break the law in any significant manner throughout their lives; so this is largely a theoretical problem.
1.3.5.1.10.4.5. Con: -> See 1.3.5.1.10.4.3.1.
1.3.5.1.10.4.6. Con: -> See 1.3.5.1.10.3.
1.3.5.1.11. Pro: -> See 1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.2.
1.3.5.1.12. Con: Legal protections may be needed to ensure that the Terms of Service that might govern virtual realities are not overly restrictive or unfair to users.
1.3.5.1.12.1. Pro: For example, in Second Life, the parent company reserves the right to remove a user's [virtual property at will](http://www.abc.net.au/4corners/content/2007/s1876068.htm). As governments regulate landlords or community covenants to ensure they are fair, so too are laws needed to ensure fair governance in virtual reality.
1.3.5.2. Pro: -> See 1.1.
1.3.5.3. Con: The lawlessness of some virtual realities may cast aspersions on the technology as a whole. This may create a chilling effect, or at least add to the apprehension of potential users.
1.3.5.3.1. Pro: It often takes one incident to be picked up by the media and exaggerated to invoke public anger and mistrust of virtual reality technology.
1.4. Pro: Activities exclusive to virtual economies should be afforded the same set of protections as those in the real economy.
1.4.1. Con: The nature of technology and isolated realities means that regulating all of virtual reality is impossible. Anyone with the knowledge to run a virtual reality privately could crack any of the security features implemented on it. This issue is reflected in the websites that governments can't take down; at least not forever.
1.4.2. Pro: Many fundamental features of the 'real' economy are already essentially virtual: stocks, bonds, and currencies such as bitcoin are not physical objects but instead are intangible social constructs. There is little to distinguish these from the goods and services available in virtual realities.
1.4.2.1. Pro: We regulate parts of the economy that are already 'virtual'. For example, many transactions are conducted using electronic transfers of funds, such as the use of credit cards. As governments already regulate virtual transactions, they should extend that regulation to fully-virtual economies.
1.4.2.2. Con: These structures are ultimately backed by a legal or government guarantee that they can be exchanged for a known quantity of value: stocks are contracts that represent holdings in a company while bonds represent a government's obligation to repay debt.
1.4.2.2.1. Con: Money only has value because everyone collectively decides to value it equally. A dollar bill has no value unless everyone believes a dollar bill is worth one dollar. If people allocate value to virtual economies and property within them, they should be treated the same as physical property.
1.4.2.2.1.1. Con: While the day to day value of a currency is determined by market forces \(and thus collective belief in value\), currencies are ultimately backed by a guarantee because governments themselves require money to have value in order for them \(and society as a whole\) to operate.
1.4.2.2.2. Pro: While these guarantees may too be social constructs, they are constructs necessary for the economy to function and have stringent protections that guarantee their value \(at any given point of time\) unlike virtual goods or property.
1.4.2.3. Pro: The distinction between physical and virtual property becomes false at the point people value the latter just as much as the former. Governments should regulate economies based on their impact on people's lives; not based on what those economies represent.
1.4.2.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.2.2.1.
1.4.2.4. Pro: According to the [Subjective Theory of Value](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subjective_theory_of_value) the goods and services of virtual economies do have a demonstrable value. Since players of these games are willing to substitute real economic resources of time and money \(monthly fees\) in exchange for these resources, by definition they have demonstrated utility to the user. Virtual commodities, by this understanding, are therefore no different to real commodities.
1.4.2.4.1. Pro: The creation of items in virtual reality could take similar amounts of time, money and special equipment as it does in the real world. This means that theft or destruction of these items represents a real loss — both in terms of lost effort and any emotional attachment — for the people who owned them.
1.4.2.4.1.1. Con: Should an item be stolen or 'destroyed' within a virtual reality, an exact and perfect copy could be recreated almost instantaneously, meaning it would not represent a significant loss.
1.4.2.4.1.1.1. Pro: Electronic money stolen through credit card fraud is already remunerated by many banks [through a similar process](https://www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk/en/articles/identity-theft-and-scams-what-you-are-liable-for). As such, money lost to credit card fraud for many is not a 'significant loss'.
1.4.2.4.1.1.2. Con: This is not always true; the rules of a certain virtual reality could require hard work and time to achieve goals, in order to make the virtual reality more exciting or challenging.
1.4.2.5. Con: Governments have a duty to protect the fundamental features of the real economy because it has a mandate for \(and a long history of\) regulating it. This creates an inescapable tie: governments are responsible for, and owe a responsibility to, the health of their economies. In virtual reality this is not the case; thus governments have no obligation or right to enforce laws there.
1.4.2.5.1. Con: Yet each government had to initially establish a mandate when these economies were emerging. Similarly, the growth of virtual economies and the participation in them by citizens gives governments the mandate to govern there.
1.4.2.6. Con: The features of the 'real' economy may be virtual but they are inescapable; the economy of physical reality is what we ultimately depend on for survival. Virtual goods and services are not necessary for survival and thus do not need regulation.
1.4.2.6.1. Con: Earning money from virtual economies is [becoming increasingly common](http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/the-new-new-economy-earning-real-money-in-the-virtual-world/). By 2006, it was estimated that the market in trading online virtual assets would hit $2.7 billion. Given the profitability of virtual economies, there is no reason why people won't become dependent on them.
1.4.3. Con: Protections against theft or fraud are justified because private property in physical reality is most often a [scarce resource](https://mises.org/library/why-we-need-private-property-deal-scarce-resources). Virtual resources are notionally limitless, so there is no need to protect them using existing laws.
1.4.3.1. Con: Imposing [artificial scarcity on virtual goods is common](http://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/6700/virtual_goods__an_excerpt_from_.php?print=1); as the owners of virtual realities or games use this scarcity to create gameplay incentives or to extract profits.
1.4.3.1.1. Con: Profit can equally be made by matching demand rather than constraining supply. Unlike in physical reality, the overall supply of land in Second Life increases dynamically — the company [literally creates new islands](https://secondlife.com/land/privatepricing.php) whenever a user wants to purchase a large series of plots.
1.4.3.2. Pro: The reproducibility of virtual goods means that their only value is as intellectual property; a class of property that is already devalued in digital media.
1.4.3.2.1. Pro: As traditional goods are converted into digital data \(and thus any link to physical scarcity removed\), piracy and filesharing have [seriously eroded media sales](http://money.cnn.com/2010/02/02/news/companies/napster_music_industry/).
1.4.3.2.2. Pro: Streaming services such as Netflix or Spotify offer access to a massive amount of media at prices that pale in comparison to the cost of buying an equivalent quantity of DVDs or albums.
1.4.3.3. Con: There are many other [reasons](http://humanevents.com/2006/06/23/we-must-protect-private-property-rights/) society values private property, such as how it embodies the right of individuals to acquire and accumulate the results of their hard work. We should value and impose laws upon property in virtual reality because it is equally reflective of our individual labours.
1.4.3.3.1. Pro: Property in virtual reality will still cost money \(whether it be physical or virtual\) which requires time and effort to obtain.
1.4.3.4. Con: Creating virtual goods and services is likely to be a creative labour, as it often is in physical reality. As such users should have their intellectual property rights recognised and enforced.
1.4.3.4.1. Con: Creative labour existed before the advent of IP rights. There is no reason that the existence of creative labour is predicated on the existence of legal protections over this creation.
1.4.3.4.2. Con: All items made within virtual reality relied on the code generated by the creator of the virtual reality, therefore all intellectual property rights belong to the creator of the virtual reality.
1.4.3.4.2.1. Con: This same standard is not applied to most other software, such as Word or Photoshop, that people rely on to create.
1.4.3.4.2.2. Pro: The creator of a virtual reality is sovereign over their own property, and thus may create whatever conscionable rules they desire for those who use it, with the consent of the users.
1.4.3.4.2.3. Con: Even if this is true, the creator's rights should still be protected and therefore any virtual reality should be subject to property laws.
1.4.3.4.2.3.1. Pro: Providing intellectual property rights over items created by users prevents the creators of a virtual reality from being held liable for the actions of the user. These laws allow the correct individuals to be held accountable for violations such as copyright infringement.
1.4.3.4.2.3.1.1. Pro: The DMCA's '[safe harbour](http://itlaw.wikia.com/wiki/DMCA_Safe_Harbors)' provision has been widely applied to all manner of sites and services that allow users to create content. This means that those sites/services themselves are not held liable for illegal content that users upload or create.
1.4.3.4.2.4. Con: A new item may rely on the code of the reality as a whole, but it still adds something unique to that reality. The creator of that unique addition should therefore be protected.
1.4.3.4.3. Pro: Copyright laws should also be enforced in order to prevent users creating copyright material, or creators of virtual realities using copyright material to attract users.
1.4.3.4.4. Pro: -> See 1.4.2.4.1.
1.4.3.4.5. Pro: The intellectual property rights of real companies are already [vigorously enforced in online games](http://www.abc.net.au/4corners/content/2007/s1876068.htm). It is only fair to also enforce those same rights for users.
1.4.3.4.6. Pro: -> See 1.4.3.4.2.3.1.
1.4.3.5. Pro: The destruction of virtual property is not fundamentally irreversible as it is in physical reality. The capacity to even allow a loss to happen in the first place is something that is up to the will of those who control virtual realities.
1.4.3.6. Pro: Money and property in the real world are fundamentally rivalrous goods; they can only be used by their owners. Virtual goods are the opposite: there is no reason why all users could not possess a particular good aside from artificially-imposed scarcity.
1.4.3.6.1. Con: -> See 1.4.2.4.
1.4.4. Pro: [Virtual economies are growing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_economy). As virtual reality becomes more commonplace users will develop significant investments in virtual goods and services that deserve protection from crimes such as theft or fraud.
1.4.4.1. Pro: Such an advanced system would be tightly integrated into the Real world financial system. Money in such a system would be as \(or more\) important to the financial systems stability as current country-based currencies. Such a virtual economy would need finance related laws for the same reasons as the current real world
1.4.4.2. Pro: [Property booms](https://www.wired.com/2003/01/gaming-2/) have occurred in virtual games, allowing individuals to earn profit in physical reality.
1.4.4.3. Pro: -> See 1.4.2.6.1.
1.4.4.4. Con: The government has no role in protecting the property of those who bet on speculative investments. Creating a business in virtual reality is always going to be a highly risky and experimental prospect as the economic rules that govern that reality are subject to change by its administrators and are likely to be oriented towards entertaining its users rather than providing a stable and efficient market for producing goods and services.
1.4.4.4.1. Pro: The fundamental structures of virtual economies are directly controlled by whomever designed that virtual reality, whereas the real economy is the sum of undirected market forces. It makes little sense to enforce financial laws in such an artificial environment.
1.4.4.4.1.1. Con: Virtual economies are themselves subject to undirected market forces if the 'rules' are sufficiently well-designed. In this way there is no principled distinction between governments and VR admins as the instigators of an economy.
1.4.4.4.1.2. Pro: Whoever controls a virtual reality can fundamentally control an economy as they direct set aspects such as inflation, scarcity, and value according to their own profit motives. This is less a functional economy than a simulation or gamified version of one.
1.4.4.5. Con: Local business often develop investments in overseas countries that have vastly different laws. Governments do not regulate these investments \(as they are in economies outside their jurisdiction\) and virtual economies should be treated similarly as they are equally foreign — a virtual reality lacks spaces, populations, or norms that are the exclusive domain of a single country.
1.4.4.5.1. Con: Yet the investments are governed by the laws of the relevant country that has jurisdiction, and the investor knows that the laws will be upheld. Similarly, a set of laws should govern investments made in virtual reality.
1.4.4.6. Pro: [Material gains](http://edition.cnn.com/2004/TECH/10/21/spark.virtual.economy/index.html) in physical reality can be made by selling off virtual commodities. Thus theft within virtual realities directly impact the ability of individuals to generate revenue in physical reality.
1.4.4.6.1. Pro: A British computer hacker stole 400 billion virtual gaming chips from Zynga, an international gaming company. He has been [jailed](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2011/mar/18/hacker-jailed-gaming-chips-scam) for two years.
1.4.4.6.1.1. Pro: The court [rejected](http://www.businessinsider.com/zynga-hacked-12-million-stolen-2011-2?IR=T) the argument that the hacking did not constitute theft because the commodity stolen was virtual. The court ruled that virtual goods can be treated like property.
1.4.4.6.2. Pro: A [thriving market](http://www.nytimes.com/2005/05/29/business/yourmoney/the-game-is-virtual-the-profit-is-real.html) has sprung up in which players spend real-world cash to buy game currency or desirable items from other players.
1.4.4.6.2.1. Pro: If you steal from someone in a virtual reality, you could be depriving them of income. There is no reason why this should not be a crime.
1.4.4.6.3. Pro: The game [EVE Online](https://www.forbes.com/sites/erikkain/2014/01/29/massive-eve-online-battle-could-cost-500000-in-real-money/#27cc32216877) has had numerous economic crashes and wars that have resulted in the loss of virtual property equivalent to tens of thousands of real dollars.
1.4.4.6.4. Pro: It is relatively common to convert real money into virtual goods, or vice versa. [Many players of online games make their living from it](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gold_farming) already.
1.4.4.6.5. Con: Just because someone makes a living by producing virtual goods or services does not mean that their property always deserves protection. By choosing to 'work' inside a simulation rather than for an actual employer, users are choosing to work in an environment where there are no guarantees that property is permanent or that the rules will always work in their favour.
1.4.4.6.5.1. Con: It is possible that people are not choosing to work in a virtual economy, but have no reasonable alternative through which they could make a living.
1.4.4.6.5.2. Pro: The government shouldn't prop up a particular industry or professional activity because making money in it is risky or difficult; the social safety net exists to ensure that workers have other options.
1.4.4.6.5.3. Con: -> See 1.1.5.5.
1.4.4.6.5.4. Pro: -> See 1.1.
1.4.4.6.5.5. Con: Instead of ignoring the growing number of people who make a living off virtual economies, the government could extend its protection to those people.
1.4.4.6.6. Con: In gambling, or in online games, users who play 'professionally' cannot complain when the very features of that activity that make it attractive to other players \(elements of randomness or the potential for player vs player combat\) do not always go their way. The possibility of losing property in virtual reality is analogous, as simulations \(like games\) need some element of risk or the potential for setback in order to be engaging experiences.
1.4.5. Con: The opportunity for great economic loss or gain \(through theft, fraud, etc\) is a [fundamental part of gameplay in online games](https://www.engadget.com/2012/10/28/eve-evolved-top-ten-ganks-scams-heists-and-events/) and would likely continue in virtual reality. To ban them by enforcing our existing laws would remove this element of enjoyment.
1.4.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.
1.4.5.2. Pro: Virtual realities can depict fantastic scenarios. To impose laws on these realities defeats their purpose and curtails the power of fictional experiences.
1.4.5.2.1. Pro: Virtual worlds start out from a point of being fully restricted; compared to the default reality, which is only restricted by physics.
1.4.5.2.1.1. Pro: The ability to do something has to be added as a feature.  The creators have full control over the rules of the universe, therefore creating laws as rules of conduct becomes irrelevant.  For instance if you don't want people to be able to kill one another, then you don't implement the code that allows them to do that.
1.4.5.2.1.2. Pro: Virtual environments can be programmed to be invulnerable or have a reload button, rendering laws protecting this useless and/or detrimental
1.4.5.2.2. Con: Real life can also impose fantastic scenarios, however the fantastic nature of an event has no bearing on its legality.
1.4.5.2.3. Pro: Fewer people will be enticed to enter VR because of this. If you are able to cuss or be mean in a videogame and the worst possible consequence is that you're getting banned, why should you be put in jail for doing the same thing in VR?
1.4.5.2.4. Pro: Much of what we read, watch, or play is based on \(or recreates\) historical events; these retellings play a valuable role in society as a way to understand and learn from history. If virtual reality simulations cannot depict or allow for crime, it might in effect sanitise the past by being unable to depict historic wars, atrocities, or protests, to users.
1.4.5.2.4.1. Con: Laws governing virtual reality would have no effect on our abilty to learn about history, as these laws would have no effect on the use of online resources, access to online information, access to libraries and historical texts, access to primary and secondary education, etc.
1.4.5.2.4.1.1. Con: If virtual reality becomes the primary media used to educate it would be an  issue if it could not be used to teach history as effectively as other subjects.
1.4.5.2.4.2. Pro: There might be virtual realities depicting worlds and eras with different laws than ours, which is part of their appeal. What might be social norm for the avatar might be against the law for the user.
1.4.5.2.4.3. Pro: The game [Spec Ops: The Line](https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2012/07/spec-ops-the-lines-lead-writer-on-creating-an-un-heroic-war-story/) was an incredibly powerful critique of war and militarism precisely because the player is duped into thinking they are the good guy and induced into carrying out atrocities themselves. This kind of expression could be all the more powerful in a virtual reality setting and world.
1.4.5.2.4.4. Con: It would still be possible to simulate many of these historic events, as long as users are not acting as the criminals in this scenario. This is probably the better perspective to take when simulating the past regardless.
1.4.5.2.4.5. Con: The government's enforcing of crimes in virtual reality could probably distinguish between 'pretend' criminal actions done in service of a simulated narrative and between criminal actions directed at other users in the course of everyday interactions.
1.4.5.2.4.6. Con: Retelling past atrocities might be better confined to non-interactive forms of media which don't require people to be complicit in enacting the atrocity itself.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1. Con: The horror of any atrocity lies in the death, pain and suffering it causes to its victims. A virtual re-enactment, especially for educational purposes, is a more accurate representation of the atrocity, but it harms no one and should be allowed.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1. Con: Actions in virtual reality can have profound psychological consequences.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1. Con: You can always walk away from the computer, put down the controller, or log out of a virtual reality. The consequences only occur if you choose to stay immersed.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.1. Con: It would be possible for you to be held in virtual reality against your will and to suffer all of the psychological traumas associated with being kidnapped in the real world. This isn't merely cyberbullying.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.2. Con: As in the real world, crime can be sudden and unexpected, even when a victim takes precautions such as not engaging with seemingly-dangerous people or spaces.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.3. Pro: A virtual reality headset can be turned off, unless someone is trapped in the real world while being forced to wear a headset, one cannot be forced into any virtual situation nor can anything physical be stolen or damaged. This would make a lot of crimes impossible.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.4. Con: -> See 1.3.5.1.9.1.2.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.5. Con: Even if someone logs out, the psychological consequences of being victim to a virtual crime remain existent in the real world and could potentially be long-lasting. It is only right for justice to be doled out on behalf of such victims.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.5.1. Con: Knowing the consequences of partaking in a virtual environment are similar to partaking in the internet as we know it today. If you are sensitive to content on social media or other websites you visit, you should already be thinking twice about visiting such websites. This goes for physical locations as well - seedy bar? Don't go in if you're not prepared.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.5.2. Pro: Unlike other media that are experienced through a screen or text, immersive virtual reality would produce memories that are indistinguishable from real world experiences. As a result, traumatic experiences become much more profound in their impacts.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.5.2.1. Pro: Makers of virtual reality horror games show the immersion they create is enough to [cause lasting psychological effects](http://www.newyorker.com/tech/elements/the-coming-horror-of-virtual-reality), even after a player has returned to physical reality.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.6. Pro: People abandon certain social spaces or circles all the time. In virtual reality, where social ties are less strong, leaving a particular social space/circle is likely to not be a big deal.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.6.1. Con: Traditional forms of media, such as books or TV, offer people an escape from the troubles of their daily lives. Virtual reality will give people the [ability](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2015/02/the-good-and-the-bad-of-escaping-to-virtual-reality/385134/) to replace their physical life with a better, virtual one. For these people, their virtual lives are more important; to ask them to simply log off is not possible.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.6.1.1. Con: The continued psychological harm caused by a crime-filled virtual reality would provide a strong driver for someone to log off, even if this virtual reality was an escape from the troubles of their daily life.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.7. Pro: Unlike real world spaces, there is little cost \(in terms of travel time or social expectations\) to logging in to a virtual reality. This makes it easier to dip in and out as desired.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.7.1. Con: Regardless of your ability to escape from a place in which your rights are being violated, the violation of your rights in and of itself is still wrong and should still be a crime.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.8. Con: This does not make the action itself acceptable. It restricts a person from accessing something they enjoy, can reap real world benefits from, and, in most cases, something they pay to access.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.8.1. Pro: Abruptly exiting a virtual reality may have consequences for one's 'success' within that reality. For example if you remove yourself from a collective activity you might remove yourself from the benefits of that activity when it is completed.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.8.2. Pro: There is no reason why restricting people from using their property in the real world should be morally distinct from using their property in virtual reality.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.8.3. Pro: It is likely that a significant number of people will use virtual reality for their work. Logging off is equivalent to walking out of a job, risking termination and thus threatening their livelihood.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.2. Con: Actions in the imagination can have profound psychological consequences; yet it would not be ethical to limit, interfere with, or punish people for what they imagine.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.3. Pro: When we watch an action there is a part of our brain that fires in the same way as when we are doing the action. This is called a [Mirror Neuron](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mirror_neuron). Part of our brain often does not distinguish between what we are seeing someone else do and what we are doing ourselves. Why would it be able to fully distinguish between fake horror and real horror?
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.4. Con: People who can not handle such possible psychological consequences can stay away from the activity, which at the end, would give better experience for the rest of the people who enjoy VR activities.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.5. Con: Virtual reality would always be distinguishable from reality to healthy eyes and ears, as the technology could never reach 100% fidelity; which would make the experience less harmful.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.6. Con: Virtual reality should allow users to specify content filters. These would be similar to how it is possible to decrease blood and gore level in current video games. Individuals prone to being triggered by specific topics could then opt to automatically censor that type of content.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.7. Pro: Anonymity encourages aggressive behaviour. In virtual reality, where your identity is unknown, the risk of such actions occurring increases. Applying existing laws deters such actions from taking place.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.7.1. Con: Applying existing laws to deter anonymous harassment has had little effect. On many existing social platforms \(e.g. Twitter\) harassers are anonymous to their victims, but are known to the administrators of the platform. Despite this, there is little accountability and prosecution of these users and harassment remains widespread.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8. Pro: In virtual environments, people interact via avatars that are often portrayed by unrealistic human-like representations. This makes it easy to dehumanise the person behind the avatar and no longer view them as people with feelings, hopes, and concerns.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.1. Con: One experiment showed that people are hesitant to harm anything with a face. Adding a face to a potato caused participants to hesitate to smash it, despite knowing it wasn't real.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2. Pro: Immersing yourself in virtual reality requires a great degree of [emotional involvement](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2015.00026/full). In particular, virtual reality's lack of physical presence means that the psychological aspects of human interaction become heightened, making any trauma or pain suffered in virtual reality worse.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.1. Pro: People [fall in love](http://edition.cnn.com/2013/02/14/tech/social-media/online-love/) online. That requires a great degree of emotional involvement, and it is this level of \(virtual\) involvement that means being assaulted can lead to a great degree of psychological and emotional pain.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2. Con: Many people recognise that their virtual lives are separate from their real lives, so the psychological impacts of decisions are less because of this knowledge.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.1. Pro: Users consciously elect to participate in a video game. As such, they must be aware of the distinction between the real world and virtual reality.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.2. Pro: It is possible for someone to delete their avatar and create a new one at any time, and in many video games avatars can come back to life over and over again. The psychological impact of decisions by these avatars and harms done to them are therefore definitively less than in the real world.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.2.1. Pro: One [study](https://www.jvrb.org/past-issues/4.2007/1022) into the importance of gameworld death showed that since character death is a repeatable event in most gaming environments, players tend to view virtual death as a mere punishment or setback rather than as a serious event.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.2.1.1. Con: Current video games do not represent the actual sensation of dying with anything near the realism involved in immersive virtual reality.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.2.1.1.1. Con: [Plenty](http://edition.cnn.com/2013/08/26/tech/gaming-gadgets/controversial-violent-video-games/index.html) of video games have graphic and gory death scenes; they also use atmospheric music or scenery to increase suspense and fear of the avatar's death.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.2.1.1.1.1. Con: Current video game technology, however, does not yet exploit the full capacity of virtual reality. Therefore, it is safe to assume that a variety of gaming experiences \(including the death of ones's avatar\) will be affected by innovative virtual reality applications, possibly making them more impactful for the user.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.2.2. Pro: "Dying" in a video game does not impact the physical world, since the avatar was not there to begin with. Same goes for electing to delete, modify, or create an avatar.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.2.3. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.2.1.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.3. Pro: Those who spend time in virtual reality are likely to spend time in a variety of different worlds through different avatars. They are unlikely to see all of them as extensions of their selfhood.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.3.1. Pro: People are likely to visit and spend time in various worlds for the same reason that avid gamers play a variety of games or that people enjoy travelling to new locations.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.3.2. Pro: It is unlikely that someone would feel that a dozen different avatars in different games and worlds are extensions of the self; they would not spend enough time or effort connecting with any one of them.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.3.2.1. Con: It is likely that someone with multiple avatars will feel a strong connection to either a few or one at any given time and will invest a substantial amount of energy in those worlds until they move on to the next.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.3.3. Con: People in the real world modify their speech patterns or behaviours in different settings already; whether that be for a specific set of friends, a specific work environment, or with intimate patterns. The performativity of embodying an avatar is not too different.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.3.4. Con: Differences in how we present ourselves through an avatar, or the specifics of a particular environment, are less direct reflections of our personality than how we interact and converse with others. Our sense of self can be constant even as these more superficial aspects are in flux.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.4. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.1.4.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.5. Pro: Players of certain video games such as Skyrim are able to [massacre](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uK6-VksXFDs) computer-generated people and know that no-one in the real world was harmed; players see these decisions as not impactful and would not make them otherwise.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.5.1. Con: -> See 1.1.6.1.3.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.3. Pro: Many online games are played in a [first-person visual persective](http://armorgames.com/category/first-person-games). This makes users feel immersed in the game and decreases the likelihood that they will see their avatar as a separate entity.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.4. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.1.2.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.5. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.1.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.3. Pro: Every individual has a [fundamental right to dignity](http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/). Dehumanising the avatar, which is an extension of the individual, is tantamount to dehumanising the individual, and therefore a violation of their basic rights.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.3.1. Con: A video game avatar is not necessarily "an extension of the individual" who controls it. Instead, an avatar could be viewed as a tool to interact with a digital world. Tools do not have fundamental rights and certainly can not be dehumanized.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.3.2. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.2.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.3.3. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.3.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.3.4. Con: -> See 1.1.6.1.4.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.3.5. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.1.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.3.6. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.1.2.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.4. Con: There is a distinction between an actual person and an avatar they control. Committing a 'crime' towards a virtual character is not equivalent to committing a crime against a person in physical reality.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.4.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.2.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.4.2. Con: -> See 1.1.6.1.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.4.3. Con: -> See 1.1.6.1.2.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.4.4. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.3.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.4.5. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.1.4.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.4.6. Con: The very idea that someone deliberately set out to hurt or kill someone is enough to victimise them. This can have damaging psychological effects.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.5. Con: Avatar representations, particularly when they contrast with our actual physical appearances, are also opportunities to build empathy and better understand the other. White people inhabiting dark-skinned avatars [showed reductions in their levels of implicit bias](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053810013000597).
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.5.1. Con: If it is true that inhabiting an avatar of colour makes one less racist, it follows that committing crimes against people of colour in virtual reality could make one more racist. This makes it all the more crucial that laws are applied in virtual reality.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.9. Pro: -> See 1.3.5.1.9.4.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10. Pro: Certain crimes are relatively easy to perform in virtual reality. Since these crimes lead to psychological harms, allowing them in virtual reality is pernicious and is likely to cause widespread harm.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1. Con: While similar, these crimes are distinct in that they cannot create physical harms. Thus their level of harm is objectively less than the same crime committed in physical reality.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1. Pro: Without permanent physical effects, large portions of the criminal code do not make sense to enforce.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.1. Con: Many crimes have nothing to do with harm to the body. For example, white collar crimes such as money laundering, bribery or fraud do not have a direct impact on the body in contrast to physical crimes such as assault or murder.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.2. Pro: A virtual world is inherently different from our own reality. One would presume that killing someone in real life is a bigger deal than doing it in a virtual world. Therefore its laws should never just be a copy of our real world, but specific to their boundaries.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.2.1. Pro: There are some laws that apply to the real world which should be applied to the virtual world, but not all of them. For example, if you make a threat in the virtual world to do something in reality that should still be illegal. Same if you used fraud while in the virtual world to get someone to buy a product in the real world or with real money. But acts that don't effect the real world should only be limited by what users consent to before logging in.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3. Pro: In a virtual reality, some actions do not carry irreversible consequenses \(e.g. shooting someone\). Therefore, many of the rules from the non-virtual reality does not make sense in virtual worlds.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1. Pro: Most forms of physical assault are not illegal just because they cause momentary pain, but because they inflict permanent damage that degrades a person's quality of life and productivity in the long term. In virtual reality, there are no such permanent effects.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.1. Con: Momentary pain is still an important consideration, especially for acts that may not have lasting physical effects \(such as many forms of torture\).
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2. Con: While virtual reality may not be 'real' in the conventional sense, it nonetheless feels real because our experience is fundamentally defined by how we perceive our environment through our senses. When we can fully simulate our sense-perception, then virtual experiences are likely to be just as visceral, and thus impactful, as in physical reality.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.1. Con: Simulating an experience through virtual reality is not fundamentally different than simulating an experience through reading a book or through roleplay.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.2. Pro: Even real life could be a simulation. What matters is the consequences, not the nature of the world they're in. If a simulation becomes advanced enough to allow physical pain, there's no difference between pain in the simulated world vs the "real" one.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.3. Pro: The only difference between the virtual and the physical world is the removal of direct physical contact. This does not prevent psychological harms from occurring.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.3.1. Pro: [Cyberbullying](https://www.cybersmile.org/advice-help/category/cyberbullying-and-the-law) is illegal, despite the act occurring online, in the virtual medium. There is no reason why bullying in an immersive virtual reality should be any different.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.3.1.1. Con: Non-physical bullying is a psychological attack no matter its medium, whereas physical attacks cannot transcend physical reality. Even if it makes sense to ban cyberbullying everywhere, it does not make sense to extend this to other crimes.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.4. Con: While it may feel real, the fact that participants know that it is not real would significantly lessen the psychological impact.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.4.1. Pro: Lucid dreaming, which involves teaching a person to realize they are in a dream, is [effective at treating problematic nightmares](https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/dream-factory/201504/confront-your-nightmares-lucid-dreaming).
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.4.2. Con: The horror genre of films and video games shows that audiences still feel terror and revulsion from depictions of things they know are not real.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.5. Pro: -> See 1.3.5.1.9.4.1.8.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.6. Pro: Even absent the realistic sensations that fully immersive virtual reality would provide, [it is easy to transfer's people's perception of their own bodies onto that of others](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0003832) — to the point where they experience the sensations of that 'fake' body as real. Our avatars in virtual reality are highly likely to replicate this effect.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.7. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.5.2.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.8. Pro: -> See 1.2.9.5.1.2.1.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.3. Pro: In physical reality, the effects of an injury can cause pain over a long period of time and may temporarily or permanently impair someone's ability to move or operate. In virtual reality these effects only last as long as someone is logged in.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.2. Pro: For example, littering is illegal in the real world due to sanitation concerns. Those reasons would not transpose to the virtual world and so a particular rule such as this one would have to be either modified or abandoned.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.4. Pro: Virtual worlds, as defined by the original thesis, don't inherently have any real-world effect. Murder or torture are commonly considered the worst crimes and doing either of those in a virtual world are impossible without having an interface to something in the "real world". This category of issues already exists on the current internet and society's use of it.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.5. Con: There is no need for the punishment of virtual reality crimes to be as severe as those in the physical world; just that they are enforced in some manner. Sentencing can easily account for the lack of permanent physical effects.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.5.1. Pro: In physical reality, the decision of how severely to punish a crime is based on how/why it was performed and what its effects were. The same considerations can take into account the virtual nature of crimes in virtual reality.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.6. Con: Many actions without any physical effects are already crimes that are enforced.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.6.1. Pro: [Cybercrime](http://criminal.findlaw.com/criminal-charges/cyber-crimes.html) such as cyberbullying and identity theft do not have physical effects but are still crimes.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.6.2. Pro: Certain forms of [verbal assault](https://answers.uslegal.com/criminal/assault/23815/) are crimes.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.6.3. Pro: Threatening, intimidating, and emotionally abusing are just a few of the actions that can lead to a [domestic violation](http://www.cahillcriminaldefense.com/9-non-physical-acts-that-can-lead-to-a-domestic-violence-charge/) charge, despite no physical harm being committed.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.6.4. Con: It is precisely because of the lack of physical effects that such crimes are so rarely prosecuted in the real world. It is therefore unreasonable to expect enforcement will be any better in virtual reality.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.6.4.1. Pro: It is estimated that between [750,000-850,000](http://dianerehm.org/shows/2014-10-22/women-and-online-harassment) people per year are victims of cyberstalking or cyber-harassment. The overwhelming majority of these cases are never dealt with since both federal and local law enforcement tend to give cybercrime a backseat to physical crimes such as homicide, drug trafficking, and larceny.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.6.4.2. Pro: Due to the often complicated circumstances surrounding identity theft, the average rate of arrest for identity thieves is less than [5%](http://www.financialinfo.org/shocking-statistics-about-identity-theft.html) of all reported cases. The conviction rate is even lower.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.6.4.3. Con: Enforcement is not weak because of the lack of physical effects, but for the lack of strong and easily gathered evidence. In the context of virtual reality, where everything that happens has a data trail, this would not be an issue.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.6.4.4. Con: Enforcement issues are not an argument against having laws. Unevenly enforced laws are still preferable to a complete lack of laws.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.7. Pro: Currently police rarely enforce crimes that cause minimal harm. As the harms caused by crimes in virtual reality are, by their nature, ones that cause minimal harm, it is very unlikely that any virtual crimes will be enforced at all.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.7.1. Con: In physical reality, it may make sense to not enforce minimally harmful crimes, but the laws are still necessary in order to prosecute crimes that are extremely harmful.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.7.2. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.6.4.3.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.7.3. Pro: Laws need to be visibly and regularly enforced in order to have a strong deterrent effect, on both that particular crime and on crime in general.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.7.4. Con: Enforcing crimes not only plays a role in punishing perpetrators or restoring victims but also in establishing a sense of order and justice in wider society. Small or victimless crimes are worth preventing if just to demonstrate the efficacy of law enforcement and thus deter the consideration of more serious crimes.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.8. Pro: -> See 1.2.7.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.9. Con: The [effects](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3181836/) of experiencing or witnessing a virtual violent crime or traumatic experience may not be outwardly visible, but lasting physical effects would indeed occur in areas of the brain associated with the stress response.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.10. Con: The distinction between physical and non-physical effects is not a good proxy for measuring the impact of a crime. Outside of murder or grievous bodily harm, the psychological effects of crime are likely just as impactful.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.10.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.10.2. Pro: In the real world most of what causes us to be unhappy is due to non-physical factors such as our relationships, our work, our mental health, etc. For most people, psychological consequences are far more important than physical ones.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.10.2.1. Con: Causing someone to be unhappy is not a legal crime.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.10.2.2. Con: It is often physical actions carried out against us that cause the worst forms of psychological trauma.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.10.2.2.1. Pro: The majority of catalyzing events that lead to the development of [PTSD](http://www.nhs.uk/Conditions/Post-traumatic-stress-disorder/Pages/Causes.aspx) are physical experiences, including combat, sexual assault, severe car accidents, terrorist attacks, violent muggings, and natural disasters.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.10.2.3. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.10.2.4. Pro: There are cases of real [suicide and murde](https://www.rt.com/news/online-game-rivalry-ends-with-real-life-murder/)r that occur as a consequence of events that take place within virtual realities. Without regulation, these are likely to continue, if not increase.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.10.2.5. Pro: Even something as simple as [social exclusion in virtual reality](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2017/02/170216105520.htm) has been shown to have a negative emotional impact in physical reality.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.10.2.6. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.4.6.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11. Pro: Many of the most accessible 'crimes' possible in virtual reality are victimless in a way that they would never be in the real world — such as assaulting a simulated character or burning down a simulated building.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.1. Con: In a fully immersive virtual reality assault would cause pain, uninvited tactile sensations, and a psychological sense of violation, and by all means should be punished just as assault is.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.2. Pro: The marginal cost of generating new virtual property or a new virtual avatar is close to zero — it is just a matter of creating a new set of data.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.2.1. Con: The marginal cost of banks fraudulently creating digital money or users sharing copyrighted material is also close to zero, but such activities are nonetheless criminalized.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.2.2. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.2.3. Con: -> See 1.4.2.4.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.2.4. Con: The rules of a particular virtual reality might mean that the cost of creating new virtual property or avatars are not zero from a player's perspective. Many existing online games impose artificial scarcity or the risk of loss in order to promote a sense of excitement and reward.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3. Pro: As in the real world, regulating and enforcing actions that violate the [non-agression principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-aggression_principle) is an unjust overreach of government power.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.1. Pro: Causing harm and innitiating force by aggressing against others is objectively immoral and, therefore, unjust.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.2. Con: Plenty of things are crimes that do not violate the non-aggression principle.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.2.1. Con: The existence of crimes that do not violate the non-aggression principle does not invalidate the claim that "regulating and enforcing actions that violate the non-aggression principle represents an unjust overreach of government". The two statements are not in conflict because the law and the non-aggression principle are not the same thing, nor does the quoted statement claim them to be.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.2.2. Pro: Taking drugs does not necessarily harm anybody else, yet it is still something we criminalise.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.2.2.1. Con: The [damage](https://www.justice.gov/archive/ndic/pubs38/38661/drugImpact.htm) caused by drug abuse and addiction is reflected in an overburdened justice system, a strained healthcare system, lost productivity, and environmental destruction, not to mention the [violence](http://www.voanews.com/a/violence-among-mexican-drug-gangs-seen-increasing/3498456.html) that comes with turf wars between drug gangs.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.2.2.2. Con: Drugs are [not criminalised everywhere](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drug_liberalization), and there is a strong argument for them to be decriminalised or legalised worldwide.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.2.3. Pro: The violation of intellectual property law is, in many cases, technically a victimless crime. Illegal file sharing is not an act of aggression against the copyright holder because electronic files like MP3s are non-rivalrous and non-excludable. Nothing is actually taken from anybody; it is just copied.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.2.3.1. Pro: MP3 files are non-rivalrous in that one person's consumption or enjoyment of them does not compromise the ability of another individual to consume them, in contrast to physical goods.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.2.3.2. Con: The copyright holder is a victim in such a case because illegal file sharing prevents them from obtaining royalties and therefore has direct economic harms on the author or copyright owner.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.2.3.2.1. Pro: If copyright owners suffer financial harms, they will be dissuaded from developing new material because they will not be able to reap financial rewards incentivising creation. This harms consumers, as well as creators.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.2.3.3. Pro: MP3s, as digital files, are [non-excludable goods](https://market.subwiki.org/wiki/Non-excludable_good) because they are so easily copied and shared without significant cost.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.3. Con: Outside of fringe An/Cap or Libertarian movements, the non-aggression principle is not considered a valid criticism of government power. Indeed the very basis of government power, [as outlined by Hobbes](https://www.gutenberg.org/files/3207/3207-h/3207-h.htm), is the use of force and aggression.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.3.1. Con: Argumentum ad populum: the validity of an argument is not predicated upon the proportion of a population that happens to agree with it.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.3.2. Con: The second statement contradicts the first. The fact that the very basis of government power is the use of force and aggression is exactly why it is a valid criticism.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.4. Con: This is probably not an issue because existing legal frameworks would recognise these types of crimes as having no lasting impact on property or persons and so not prosecute or enforce them.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.5. Con: Many crimes carried out in physical reality are similarly victimless \(for example drug possession\) however society still aggressively enforces them.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.5.1. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.2.2.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.5.2. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.3.2.2.2.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.6. Con: A simulated character or simulated building are still likely to be someone else's virtual property;  recreating them might be difficult depending on the rules of that virtual reality.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.6.1. Pro: People can [connect emotionally](https://nowloading.co/p/npcs-friends-connect/4094627) with simulated characters. The trauma of losing a loved one will still exist if a simulated character is killed.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.11.6.2. Pro: -> See 1.4.2.4.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.2. Con: The level of harm could still be sufficiently high such that the action should be criminalised.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.2. Pro: Many people will likely want to commit murder in virtual reality; and since this medium tricks the brain on a [perceptual level](https://venturebeat.com/2014/06/05/what-oculus-rift-and-virtual-reality-mean-for-sex-death-violence-and-identity/view-all/), being the victim of such a crime could be profoundly damaging.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.2.1. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.2.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.3. Pro: Virtual reality makes it very easy for people to infringe on others' [personality rights](https://venturebeat.com/2014/06/05/what-oculus-rift-and-virtual-reality-mean-for-sex-death-violence-and-identity/view-all/). For example, it would be relatively simple to utilize photos and videos from someone's social media account to create an avatar of them. This means that a person's virtual likeness could be forced to do any number of things completely against that person's will.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.3.1. Con: The knowledge that anyone can make an avatar resembling anyone else will prevent people from associating actions committed by an avatar with the person the avatar resembles.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.4. Pro: Invasion of a user's privacy would be incredibly simple, as every single movement and interaction of a person within a virtual reality will be tracked by the server it is hosted within.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.4.1. Con: The technology [already exists today](https://www.wired.com/2017/03/wikileaks-cia-hack-signal-encrypted-chat-apps/) for companies to host user data critical to their operations in an encrypted format that can only be accessed by the user it belongs too, and not by the company or law enforcement.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.4.1.1. Con: Data about how a user's avatar moves, or what it says, cannot be kept fully encrypted and private because that data needs to be sent to other users so that their avatars can interact with each other and the virtual environment.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.5. Pro: There is no real distance in virtual reality; people can contact or observe each other constantly and from thousands of miles away. This would surely make harassment, threats, and stalking easier and entrench severe misogyny online.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.11. Pro: -> See 1.3.5.1.9.3.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.12. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.3.1.2.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.13. Con: The digital nature of these crimes would lessen their psychological impact.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.13.1. Pro: If the user knows they're in virtual reality there could never be full immersion. They will know that everything in VR is fake. Moreover, it would be impossible to simulate death because it's impossible to make stakes high enough with knowledge of your own immortality thus breaking a lot of emotional/ psychological connections.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.13.2. Con: Lessening that impact does not equal removing it.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.13.3. Pro: Psychologists studying the horror genre of computer games [state](http://www.psychologyofgames.com/2015/10/the-psychology-of-horror-games/) that 'knowing something is fake' lessens its psychological impact.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.13.3.1. Con: Recreations of the Stanley Milgram test \(where users were instructed to administer what appeared to be increasingly painful electrocutions to an unseen stranger\) in virtual reality [were found to be just as impactful as in the real world](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0000039); even though participants knew the electrocutions were obviously fake.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.13.3.1.1. Con: ["The participants in the VC often behaved in a way that only made sense if they were responding to the virtual character as if she were real"](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0000039) \(from the article\). That the responses were similar enough to the expectation of real-life results suggests that they would have responded the same. However, the after-effects of the experiment did not have the same psychological reactions as that of the original experiment, possibly since the people knew the experiment was not real.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.13.4. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.1.5.2.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.13.5. Con: -> See 1.3.5.1.9.4.1.8.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.14. Con: -> See 1.1.
1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.15. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.10.2.
1.4.5.2.5. Pro: Fiction often depicts immoral or illegal acts \(i.e. theft\) that could not be experienced in virtual realities that enforce existing laws. This would censor large swaths of culture and dramatically restrict creative expression.
1.4.5.2.5.1. Pro: If you look at the most popular video games on the market today most of them involve illegal activities i.e. assassinating, killing, or stealing. People play these games because they can do things without consequences. If the law was enforced it would defeat the purpose of a virtual world.
1.4.5.2.5.2. Pro: No general moral imperative against depictions of illegal acts in media exists — at least not to a level that should override the general liberty of an adult to knowingly consume it.
1.4.5.2.5.3. Pro: In particular, not allowing virtual realities to have crime is particularly harmful to 'open world' style environments where users explore a large environment and gameplay is open-ended.
1.4.5.2.5.3.1. Pro: [Darkfall](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darkfall) is a virtual world that allows players a large amount of freedom in deciding what they want to do. The environment is inhabited by various different monsters, many of which can kill a player easily. The game is made even more dangerous by the fact that you can kill and be killed by anyone at any time. The purpose of this game is defeated if you impose upon it the laws of physical reality.
1.4.5.2.5.4. Con: -> See 1.2.
1.4.5.2.5.5. Con: There exist reasonable restrictions on the freedom of expression; there is no reason for these restrictions not to apply to virtual reality as a medium when they do to other media such as books and movies.
1.4.5.2.5.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.9.5.1.2.1.1.
1.4.5.2.5.5.2. Pro: About a [quarter](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2016/07/29/which-countries-still-outlaw-apostasy-and-blasphemy/) of the world’s countries and territories \(26%\) have anti-blasphemy laws or policies that restrict what can be produced in movies and books.
1.4.5.2.5.5.2.1. Con: Anti blasphemy laws are a violation of human rights and a form of oppression.
1.4.5.2.5.5.2.2. Con: How a minority of governments restrict blasphemous content is irrelevant when it comes to informing decisions around virtual reality.
1.4.5.2.5.5.2.3. Con: Religions should not be immune to criticism and questioning - [blasphemy laws](http://end-blasphemy-laws.org/whats-wrong-with-blasphemy-laws/) exceed reasonable restrictions on speech and often lead to violence.
1.4.5.2.5.5.3. Pro: Hate speech laws exist to prevent offending and inciting violence against specific groups. Virtual realities should also act as a safe space for all individuals.
1.4.5.2.5.5.3.1. Con: Hate speech laws are a violation of free speech and therefore a violation of human rights. A space in which individuals can be punished for their freedom of expression is by no means a "safe" space.
1.4.5.2.5.5.3.2. Pro: Games like [Muslim Massacre](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muslim_Massacre_\(video_game\)), where the aim is to wipe out all Muslims, are likely to be incorporated into virtual realities. Such games will only serve to perpetuate discrimination and incite violence in physical reality.
1.4.5.2.5.5.3.3. Con: If people with sociopathic tendencies are given a virtual environment where they can act upon them in a harmless manner, it might sate their desires to the point where they will refrain from acting upon them in the real world.
1.4.5.2.5.5.3.3.1. Con: -> See 1.2.9.
1.4.5.2.5.5.3.3.2. Con: -> See 1.2.
1.4.5.2.5.5.3.4. Con: -> See 1.3.5.
1.4.5.2.5.5.4. Pro: Depiction of graphic violence and misogyny have often been restricted.
1.4.5.2.5.5.4.1. Pro: Two Australian retail chains [removed](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-30328314) the video game Grand Theft Auto V from sale in its stores after complaints that the game encourages players to murder women for entertainment, to commit sexual violence against women, and then abuse or kill them to proceed or get 'health' points. Such acts should not be allowed in virtual realities either.
1.4.5.2.5.5.4.2. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.5.5.3.3.
1.4.5.2.5.5.5. Con: Such restrictions impose a value judgement of the majority on a given set of ideas and beliefs. Such restrictions are biased and harm those who would like to express the ideas and beliefs being restricted.
1.4.5.2.5.5.5.1. Pro: Everything we know about the world — the age of our civilization, species, planet, and universe; the stuff we’re made of; the laws that govern matter and energy; the workings of the body and brain — came as [insults to the sacred dogma of the day](https://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/2015/01/26/why-free-speech-fundamental/aaAWVYFscrhFCC4ye9FVjN/story.html). Unrestricted speech and expression allows society to continue to develop itself.
1.4.5.2.5.5.6. Pro: If anything, the depictions of those actions would be much more visceral in virtual reality than in traditional media; creating a greater onus to ban them.
1.4.5.2.5.5.7. Con: Traditional media regulations are not applicable to virtual reality where content is largely defined by user's actions. Existing restrictions presuppose that the content of that media is fixed and set by publishers; not generated by users. Enforcing them would require dramatically different laws or much more extreme methods.
1.4.5.2.5.6. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.5.
1.4.5.2.6. Pro: Virtual reality is likely to [displace and emulate](http://www.vogue.co.uk/article/vogue-investigates-vr-will-the-virtual-ever-replace-the-reality) traditional modes of fictional experiences.
1.4.5.2.6.1. Pro: Video games are much more immersive than traditional modes of media, however their adoption is limited by the need for players to exert precise actions using complicated controls and interfaces. Virtual reality, unlike video games, has much less of a learning curve because its 'interface' is one's own body.
1.4.5.2.6.2. Pro: Virtual reality technologies are able to emulate and enhance all existing media by making their experience more visceral — whether that be social media, movies, games, or books.
1.4.5.2.6.2.1. Pro: Virtual reality technology offers the illusion of embodiment [that traditional media lack.](http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/frobt.2016.00003/full)
1.4.5.2.6.3. Pro: Virtual reality, unlike most other forms of media, enables a social environment that allows users to find meaning through social interaction as we do in physical reality.
1.4.5.2.6.4. Pro: -> See 1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.1.
1.4.5.2.6.5. Con: Additional forms of media do not tend to entirely displace those that came before. The advent of radio did not kill the novel; the advent of television did not kill the radio; etc.
1.4.5.2.6.5.1. Con: Even though they may not entirely displace them, new forms of media end up displacing old forms of media to a large extent.
1.4.5.2.7. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.5.5.
1.4.5.2.8. Con: Virtual realities do not necessarily need to be works of fiction; they may also seek to emulate reality, thereby providing individuals with countless opportunities.
1.4.5.2.8.1. Pro: Not all virtual worlds are games. [Second Life](https://www.lindenlab.com/tos) is a virtual world where people can come together and interact within a simulated environment and is even defined as not a game in its Terms of Service agreement.
1.4.5.2.8.1.1. Pro: There are games that can be played within Second Life, but the virtual world itself is not primarily considered to be a game. It is more like a second world, where people are able to live out a second life, complete with businesses and real-world country embassies, property they can own or rent, fashion design, entertainment, marriages, dance clubs, and the list goes on. If people intend to use it as a second world, there is no reason why it should not be regulated as such.
1.4.5.2.8.1.1.1. Pro: When virtual reality reaches the point that people are dedicating their lives to it and a majority of their way of life is dedicated to VR, then it would seem just to defend those people's Virtual lives from being destroyed as for them, the VR world has become their primary world.
1.4.5.2.8.1.1.2. Con: Perhaps these people go to this second world in order to escape from the real world. By establishing the same rules and laws, you deprive them of their purpose of having a second life.
1.4.5.2.8.1.2. Con: -> See 1.1.7.2.
1.4.5.2.8.2. Pro: Virtual reality is being used to [share ideas and teach lessons](http://immersivevreducation.com), transforming traditional modes of education.
1.4.5.2.8.3. Pro: For example, virtual reality would be used for business meetings utilising social hangouts.
1.4.5.2.8.4. Pro: Virtual reality is being used in [healthcare](https://www.vrs.org.uk/virtual-reality-healthcare/) for surgery simulation, phobia treatment, robotic surgery and skills training. Virtual medical and treatment centres should be protected by the law.
1.4.5.2.8.5. Pro: Virtual reality is being used to allow prospective buyers of real estate to [experience](https://startvr.co/revolutionising-virtual-reality-real-estate/) the space even before construction has started. Destruction of virtual property would actively hinder the operation of real estate businesses.
1.4.5.2.8.6. Pro: Virtual reality is being used for [military training](https://www.vrs.org.uk/virtual-reality-military/). To sabotage such training, or to steal information and/or equipment, will directly harm the safety of any country.
1.4.5.2.8.6.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.6.4.
1.4.5.2.8.7. Pro: Virtual-reality systems under [development](http://www.space.com/32912-virtual-reality-humans-to-mars.html) could train astronauts, maneuver the Mars rover and support explorers on their long journey to Mars.
1.4.5.2.8.8. Con: -> See 1.3.5.1.8.1.1.2.3.
1.4.5.2.8.9. Con: -> See 1.1.7.2.
1.4.5.2.9. Pro: People often want to reinvent themselves. This is easier in a world without restrictions.
1.4.5.2.9.1. Pro: People often go into the virtual realm to escape from their real lives, which they can find constricting and suffocating. Imposing the same set of rules in virtual reality as the real world deprives these people of a safe place to go.
1.4.5.2.9.2. Pro: Individuals face structural barriers to success, such as racism, sexism, or poverty. Virtual reality offers the opportunity to achieve success on a level playing field with everyone else.
1.4.5.2.9.2.1. Con: Women would likely face similar barriers to success in virtual reality if they were not protected from [rape](https://www.inter-disciplinary.net/wp-content/uploads/2009/06/incest-sexual-violence-and-rape-in-video-games.pdf) and discrimination.
1.4.5.2.9.2.1.1. Con: Virtual reality destabilises the connection between relatively fixed identity characteristics \(say gender or racial presentation\) and the roles or communities associated with them \(say child birth or historic ethnic origins\). Over time, breaking this connection reduces discrimination by breaking ties to the historic factors that enable discrimination.
1.4.5.2.9.2.1.1.1. Pro: Gender is already performative within many online games; 23% of male-identifying World of Warcraft players \(who [constitute 84% of the player](https://www.bustle.com/articles/81745-female-avatars-experience-lookism-says-study-proving-yet-again-that-sexism-in-gaming-is-real) base\), [chose female avatars](http://www.slate.com/blogs/future_tense/2014/05/13/world_of_warcraft_gender_switching_why_men_choose_female_avatars.html). Thus there is no distinct certainty that someone's gender presentation matches their internal gender identity; a factor that can reduce gendered discrimination over time.
1.4.5.2.9.2.1.1.2. Con: The associations linked with racial presentation or gender will not disappear because of interactions in virtual reality. Prejudices will continue to exist, as users in the physical world will continue to hold views about certain fixed identity characteristics.
1.4.5.2.9.2.2. Con: People of colour would likely face similar barriers to success in virtual realities without protection from hate crimes.
1.4.5.2.9.2.2.1. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.9.2.1.1.
1.4.5.2.9.3. Con: Escaping into a virtual reality reduces the need and pressure for injustices in the real world to be addressed.
1.4.5.2.9.3.1. Con: The fight against injustices can be simulated safely in a virtual world, allowing practitioners to return to reality with real skills and knowledge to make a difference. Otherwise, practicing in reality and making even one mistake can cause the addresser to permanently be unable to participate.
1.4.5.2.9.3.2. Con: This reduction, were it to occur, would be negligible as virtual reality is unlikely to completely replace physical reality. In that instance, laws that prevent discrimination, tackle inequality and aim to provide people with a decent standard of living will still be required.
1.4.5.2.9.4. Pro: Self-actualisation often requires exploring new, unknown, or previously impossible experiences. An unrestricted environment is best for this, especially for those who lack the means to access those experiences in physical reality.
1.4.5.2.9.5. Pro: Often our deepest fantasies or desires come from actions or experiences we cannot access easily in the real world. Virtual reality offers a means to actualise these.
1.4.5.2.9.6. Pro: Virtual reality avatars are defined by users, thus they offer the chance to reshape how we present ourselves through characteristics that are otherwise difficult to change in reality \(gender, race, body type, voice, etc\).
1.4.5.2.9.6.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.9.2.1.1.
1.4.5.2.9.7. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.3.
1.4.5.2.9.8. Pro: There are likely to be a plethora of virtual realities available to individuals. If one wanted to build a second life, they could join the virtual reality which had a strict set of laws and rules, rather than the virtual reality without.
1.4.5.2.10. Pro: The role of story and myth throughout human history has often been to help define morality by demonstrating its violations and the consequences thereof. Virtual reality must allow immoral actions in order to play this role.
1.4.5.2.10.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.6.
1.4.5.2.10.2. Pro: In order to teach moral lessons, we need to show the effects and causes of a particular action rather than merely ban it. Fictional experiences teach moral lessons by showing \(for example\) people driven to kill by adverse circumstances, misguided intentions, ignorances of duty, or other causes that should be identified and understood.
1.4.5.2.10.2.1. Con: -> See 1.1.4.4.1.
1.4.5.2.10.3. Con: These demonstrations don't have to proceed by allowing users to perform crimes on one another. Instead, they could be depicted as in traditional fiction \(i.e. in a non-interactive fashion\) by having them performed by non-player characters.
1.4.5.2.10.4. Con: -> See 1.1.4.4.1.
1.4.5.2.11. Pro: Our actions in virtual reality are essentially fantasies: we can perform them freely and without real consequences. In this way they are analogous to our internal thoughts and imagination. These cannot be criminalised.
1.4.5.2.11.1. Con: Computer-generated or cartoon pornography depicting minors is also a 'fantasy' yet it has been [criminalised in certain jurisdictions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legal_status_of_drawn_pornography_depicting_minors).
1.4.5.2.11.2. Pro: Virtual reality is a way to escape the often totalitarian nature of actual reality. Actions taken in virtual reality should not be subjected to any laws because it allows virtual reality to function as a means to release repressed stress and anger.
1.4.5.2.11.3. Con: In fiction, and in our imagination, we do not interact with other people. In virtual reality there is the potential that we will do so, and as such it is legitimate to restrict our actions in this realm so as to protect others.
1.4.5.2.11.4. Pro: Virtual reality is a space within which an individual can visualise their own desires and thoughts. If we cannot criminalise the desire to commit a crime, we cannot criminalise the visualisation of it either.
1.4.5.2.11.4.1. Con: -> See 1.2.6.3.
1.4.5.2.11.4.2. Pro: The US Supreme Court [struck down](http://www.nytimes.com/2002/04/16/national/supreme-court-strikes-down-ban-on-virtual-child-pornography.html) the ban on virtual child pornography. It claimed that the act was an extension of the right to thought, and without actual action, cannot be criminalised.
1.4.5.2.11.4.3. Con: While some virtual actions might not affect others, the prospect of them being done unto other people in virtual reality still means that there should be laws against criminal actions.
1.4.5.2.11.4.4. Con: Once the visualisation of a crime harms another individual, it no longer remains a thought just in one's head — it becomes an action that has direct consequences and is therefore meaningfully distinct from a thought.
1.4.5.2.11.5. Con: Unlike our internal thoughts and fantasies, virtual realities are a medium where our actions are expressed and recorded. Even in circumstances where they do not affect other people, they are at least analogous to acts of speech, hence restrictions are applicable
1.4.5.2.11.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.5.5.
1.4.5.2.11.5.2. Con: In some jurisdictions \(such as the US\), Freedom of Speech is [constitutionally protected](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/volokh-conspiracy/wp/2015/05/07/no-theres-no-hate-speech-exception-to-the-first-amendment/?utm_term=.15e24f1a21a8).
1.4.5.2.11.5.2.1. Con: That constitutional protection is subject to [restrictions](http://www.uscourts.gov/about-federal-courts/educational-resources/about-educational-outreach/activity-resources/what-does).
1.4.5.2.11.6. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.9.
1.4.5.3. Con: There is no reason to assume that all or even the majority of fully immersive virtual realities would exist for the purpose of gameplay.
1.4.5.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.8.
1.4.6. Pro: -> See 1.4.3.4.
1.4.7. Con: -> See 1.4.4.4.1.
1.5. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.
1.6. Pro: Virtual realities allow people to easily conduct crimes of a far greater magnitude than is possible in the real world.
1.6.1. Pro: The ability of virtual reality to depict suffering is endless; it enables the experience of violence or torture \(whether against other users or simulated characters\) to be much more extreme and visceral than they could in the real world.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Torture in the real world is to a certain extent limited by the limits of the human body; people's capacity for pain or deprivation is not limitless. Torturing people in a virtual medium could potentially be much more prolonged.
1.6.1.2. Con: At best, virtual torture is psychological and/or relies on a muted set of sensations relative to real-world torture. It is unlikely to be as traumatic.
1.6.1.3. Pro: -> See 1.3.5.1.9.4.1.8.2.
1.6.2. Pro: The malleability of a virtual reality environment allows people to recreate or simulate classes of crime that would normally require vast resources, such as genocide, war crimes, or terrorism.
1.6.2.1. Pro: In a virtual reality, you could wipe out an entire race or culture just by executing a line of code.
1.6.2.1.1. Con: This kind of instantaneous action would mean that no actual crime is observed by the users themselves, and therefore no harm is suffered beyond the loss of an avatar in a virtual reality.
1.6.2.1.1.1. Con: -> See 1.1.6.1.2.
1.6.2.1.2. Pro: Witnessing hate crimes or genocide could have a deep psychological effect on users who share an identity with the victims, even if the victims are themselves virtual.
1.6.2.2. Pro: Creating a simulation of a heinous crime is just as easy as creating a simulation of any other virtual experience. This makes people much more likely to do it.
1.6.2.2.1. Con: Such a crime would require amassing a large number of avatars in one place at the same time. Notwithstanding the difficulty of that, any number of them could log off and walk away from their computer. Such a crime will be disproportionately harder to commit, and therefore incredibly unlikely.
1.6.2.3. Con: Orchestrating such a huge crime against virtual users \(rather than just simulations of people\) is likely to be extremely difficult; it is not in the interests of virtual reality administrators to allow terrorism or genocide in their worlds.
1.6.2.3.1. Pro: It will likely only be possible if the virtual reality is intended for such actions to occur, either as part of a game or to re-enact a past atrocity. In this instance, individuals will have consented to this occurring.
1.6.3. Pro: [Reports from drone pilots](http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-19820760) show the digital nature of the act of killing makes it easy for them to distance themselves psychologically from the crime. A similar effect would allow large-scale crimes to be more easily carried out in a virtual reality.
1.6.3.1. Con: Drone pilots are elite members of a military force specifically trained to strike enemy targets in the real world. Even though distancing themselves from the physical location of their targets makes it easier for them to strike, drone pilots are aware that their actions are not limited to a digital realm and have physical consequences.
1.6.3.2. Con: A study conducted by the Department of Defense [revealed](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/23/us/drone-pilots-found-to-get-stress-disorders-much-as-those-in-combat-do.html) that drone pilots actually experience mental health issues including anxiety, depression, and PTSD at the same rate as combat pilots and aircrews. It is thus unlikely that people could carry out large-scale criminal acts in a virtual reality and not suffer psychological repercussions.
1.6.3.2.1. Con: While the study suggests that they do experience stress and pressure through their daily routines, the main guesses as to their cause appear to be \(from the same article\):

"1\) witnessing combat violence on live video feeds, 
2\) working in isolation or under inflexible shift hours, 
3\) juggling the simultaneous demands of home life with combat operations
4\) dealing with intense stress because of crew shortages"

None of which apparently connected with [remorse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remorse) or [guilt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guilt_\(emotion\)) as the parent claims
1.6.3.3. Pro: Drone pilots are already interacting with virtual representations of their targets — i.e. as markers on a satellite image. The same kind of dehumanisation effects they feel are likely to be just as present in virtual reality.
1.6.3.3.1. Con: You should not equate drone pilots with average virtual reality users. Drone pilots are highly specialized members of a military force who obviously understand that their seemingly digital actions have real life repercussions. Conversely, video game users consciously participate in a simulation for entertainment purposes and are aware that the actions happening within that realm have no physical consequences in the real world.
1.6.3.3.2. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.
1.6.4. Con: Such a scenario provides an opportunity for the average person to experience and better comprehend mass crimes that humans are otherwise psychologically [unable](http://www.apa.org/science/about/psa/2007/11/slovic.aspx) to appreciate.
1.6.4.1. Pro: Though citizens are aware of mass murder and torture, statistics and recountings fail to motivate action in the way exposure to images and visceral sensations do. Virtual reality depictions represent an unparalleled opportunity to foster empathy and demand protections for victims of such crimes.
1.6.4.1.1. Con: Alternatively, virtual reality depictions of intense violence could awaken feelings of brutality and blood-lust in witnesses, ultimately leading to more violence both within and beyond the virtual environment.
1.6.4.1.1.1. Con: Even if a witness to a virtual historical mass atrocity awakens feelings of brutality, far more people will feel sympathy and compassion for the victims of such atrocities in physical reality. That degree of sympathy and compassion can provide victims with the support and solidarity they need to move on and live a healthy and stable life.
1.6.4.1.2. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.
1.6.4.2. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.
1.6.4.3. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.10.
1.6.5. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.13.
1.7. Con: -> See 1.3.5.1.
1.8. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.
1.9. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.
1.10. Pro: Actions can be immoral and harmful to the point of illegality —  even if they do not have physical consequences.
1.10.1. Pro: In tort law, a plaintiff generally has a claim so long as the damage is real. That is, the claim cannot be based on what might happen or be hypothetical. This is true no matter what medium the damage or injury occurs — real or virtual. As long the damage is real, there is a basis for legal action.
1.10.1.1. Pro: The idea that crime is crime no matter how it occurs actually stems from criminal law — not tort \(civil claims\). Basically, if someone steals from someone, the way it happened \(i.e. the medium\) is irrelevant. Regardless if it happened at gun point or by mail/wire fraud, the act is still punishable by law. If a crime happens in the virtual sphere, and another suffers damage because of it, it is still a crime. The mere fact that it happened in a virtual space does not matter — damage was done.
1.10.2. Pro: One could spend their entire life in a fully immersive virtual reality; meaning this virtual space is less [a state of nature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_of_nature#Thomas_Hobbes) and more a commons space where social contracts and mutualism apply. If our rights are inalienable, it is reasonable that they transfer with us in a virtual world and are protected there as they are in the real world.
1.10.3. Con: Many virtual experiences might not involve coming into contact with other people at all. In which case any actions fulfilled are essentially only within the mind of a single user.
1.10.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.11.
1.10.3.2. Con: Actions have an effect on the person doing them as well. Immoral actions could have a profoundly negative effect on the individual and, by extension, society, even if no-one was there to see them.
1.10.3.2.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.
1.10.3.2.2. Pro: Being able to commit a crime, even against an artificial person, with no ramifications could negatively affect how an individual sees and thinks about other people.
1.10.3.2.2.1. Pro: A person could commit hate crimes or genocide against virtual people in virtual reality; without punishment, this could reinforce their hatred.
1.10.3.2.2.2. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.5.
1.10.4. Con: Our [death drives](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_drive), 'killer instincts' or [shadow](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shadow_\(psychology\)) are natural mental tools of defense we have against threats and danger. We all learn and should learn to develop these while growing up through the use of imagination, play and communication media \(movies, plays, books\) — all of which is not immoral and is in the same category as virtual reality if no permanent harm is intended in the first place.
1.10.5. Pro: When we interact with someone, we do not solely interact with their bodies, but rather with their [essence](https://dspace.library.colostate.edu/bitstream/handle/10217/72364/Wojak_colostate_0053N_11467.pdf?sequence=1) \(p. 56\). This does not change when interacting and committing a crime against an individual in virtual reality, even if the real body goes unaffected.
1.10.5.1. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.
1.10.5.2. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.4.6.
1.10.5.3. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.
1.10.5.4. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.10.1.1.9.
1.10.5.5. Con: In virtual reality, unlike physical reality, one's essence is far less of a fixed construct: it is freely malleable according to choices in avatar, speech, and action. Attacks upon such a fluid essence are less likely to feel as attacks on one's authentic or true character in an environment that encourages performance and fantasy.
1.10.5.5.1. Con: The essence of an individuality in virtual reality is an identity they have chosen for themselves, as opposed to their identity in physical reality which is often determined by factors outside of their control. Attacking the essence they have chosen for themselves in virtual reality, no matter how malleable it is, is equally harmful.
1.10.5.5.2. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.2.2.3.
1.10.5.5.3. Pro: -> See 1.1.6.1.4.
1.10.6. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.8.
1.10.7. Pro: Kant's [deontological theory of rights](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/ethics-deontological/) argues that actions are not judged by their consequences, but rather by their inherent moral worth. If an action is considered to be a crime in the real world, the act itself is immoral, regardless of its consequences, and therefore should be illegal in virtual reality also.
1.10.7.1. Con: The simulation of immoral acts in virtual reality may have the positive moral worth of revealing to people the ugly side of those acts and thus deterring them to commit such acts against others in the real world.
1.10.7.2. Con: A simulation of an action is not the action per se but a well crafted thought or representation of the idea of the action, just like painting a murder or writing about it or acting it on a play is not a murder nor an intent of murder.
1.10.7.3. Con: This standard is not held up in real world law. There are plenty of things that are highly immoral by Kant's categorical imperative that are not crimes, such as lying and cheating on a significant other.
1.10.7.4. Pro: According to Kantian ethics, morality is intensely personal, in the sense that we are each enjoined to keep our own moral house in order. Our categorical obligation is to keep our own agency free of moral taint. Acting out a murder in virtual reality taints our own morality.
1.10.8. Con: According to the [utilitarian theory of ethics](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/utilitarianism-history/), actions are to be judged based entirely on their consequences. If an action produces no harm, it cannot be immoral, and certainly not illegal.
1.10.8.1. Pro: The morality of an action is a matter of taste and mustn't be valued on par with actual harm done, let alone be litigated as such.
1.10.8.2. Con: Real world law recognises non-utilitarian moral principles insofar it classifies attempted murder as a serious crime even if no harm is actually done.
1.10.8.2.1. Con: Attempted murder often captures cases where individuals are seriously injured, but are not killed. This is the usual circumstances for an attempted murder charge. Clearly, in such cases there is real harm.
1.10.8.2.2. Pro: Legislators have created laws to criminalise conduct even in the planning stage, such as for terrorists acquiring training manuals or for potential sex offenders grooming children \(See, eg [Australian Criminal Code](http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/cth/consol_act/cca1995115/sch1.html) ss 101.4, 272.15\). These are justified according to a non-utilitarian moral interpretation.
1.10.8.2.3. Con: Most attempted crimes have a high chance of becoming actual crimes that cause harm. For utilitarians, punishing, or at least deterring, events that have a high likelihood to possibly cause harm is perfectly reasonable.
1.10.8.3. Con: -> See 1.4.5.2.4.6.1.1.
1.10.8.4. Pro: The impacts of 'crimes' in virtual reality are too subjective to be categorically labelled as harmful. To some the experience of experiencing mild physical discomfort is an enjoyable risk of the simulation, similar to physical-world activities such as rugby or paintball.
1.10.8.5. Pro: Virtual crimes may have a psychological impact, but so do many non-criminal activities that do not consistently and reliably produce a harm great enough to render illegal.
1.10.8.5.1. Pro: Many of our most damaging psychological experiences stem from personal experiences, such as break-ups or parental estrangements, that are not criminal.