Discussion Title: Should plastic water bottles have a five-cent deposit on every bottle?

1. Should plastic water bottles have a five-cent deposit on every bottle?
1.1. Pro: Poor citizens can generate an extra income by collecting plastic bottles.
1.1.1. Con: This takes away an incentive from the government and society as a whole to help poor people to escape poverty. After all, it can always be pointed out that they can survive on collecting bottles and returning them.
1.2. Pro: Having a five-cent deposit on a water bottle gives the empty water bottle a monetary value.  If something has a monetary value, it is unlikely to be discarded.
1.2.1. Con: Five cent is not much, only the poorest people will mind about that money.
1.3. Con: There are better policies and practices than a refundable deposit to encourage plastics recycling.
1.3.1. Pro: It should be legistlated for all waste to be segregated and collected for recycling - this would encompass all plastics \(not just bottles\) paper, metals and glass for example.
1.4. Con: There is a cost the retailer will incur to facilitate the return of the bottles within its retail locations.
1.4.1. Con: Retailers would supposedly be able to sell the discarded bottles on, thereby making a profit after the initial investment into the necessary infrastructure.
1.5. Pro: Giving the water bottles monetary value will keep the bottles out of the environment and into the recycling facility where they belong.
1.6. Con: Consumers incurring the cost of the deposit will have to modify their behavior to collect and store the water bottles to return to the retail location.
1.7. Pro: If consumers have to modify their behavior to collect and store plastic water bottles, the action could inspire many consumers to start recycling other items.
1.7.1. Con: To the contrary, it might educate consumers to the effect that they do not recycle anything that does not come with a monetary reward.
1.8. Con: The cost to retailers would generate a great deal of political push back on the elected officials who would be required to vote on the required law to incur the five-cent deposit.
1.8.1. Con: The public might appreciate the measure and therefore support it. This would most likely dwarf the backlash caused by retailers.
1.9. Con: Depending upon the number of water bottles returned, retailers may have to hire additional staff to manage the returned bottles.
1.9.1. Con: Which only means new workplaces.
1.10. Con: The retailers may have to deal with sanitation issues depending upon the condition of the water bottles when returned.
1.10.1. Con: Bottles can easily be cleaned through an automated process.