Discussion Title: Should Anyone Be Allowed To Be a Parent?

1. Anyone should be allowed to be a parent.
1.1. Pro: Any restrictions on what constitutes a 'good' parent are likely tainted by the zeitgeist of the time.
1.1.1. Pro: Animals are capable of parenting without having any of the skills our society views as being essential.
1.1.1.1. Con: Animals also tend to outcast, sometimes kill and eat their offspring and have a high mortality rate in nature.
1.1.1.2. Con: Human "parenting" is a concept that involves more than breeding in the animal sense. Animals don't have to integrate in our society, abide it's law and try to become a productive part of it.
1.1.1.3. Con: Among animals, parenting restrictions are very common and practiced mostly in the form of infanticide. "Scientific research shows it can provide benefits \[...\] such as \[...\] the prevention of misdirected parental care."[Why infanticide can benefit animals](http://www.bbc.co.uk/nature/18035811)
1.1.2. Pro: Morality changes over time.
1.1.2.1. Con: There is no evidence that morality changes to the contrary, although there are neuroscientific experiments suggesting that basic morality is present in mammals \([www.journalofplay.org](http://www.journalofplay.org/sites/www.journalofplay.org/files/pdf-articles/2-3-interview-science-of-brain-jaak-panksepp.pdf)\) when playing. Also Clare W. Graves, and Don Beck's work indicates that morality is rather unfolding when life conditions are perceived more complex and regress when life conditions are perceived simpler. \(source: [www.clarewgraves.com](http://www.clarewgraves.com/articles_content/1974_Futurist/1974_Futurist.html)\)
1.1.3. Con: Laws change over time; it doesn't mean we shouldn't have any. What constitutes a good parent may change in the future, but we should still have at least some base restrictions to start with.
1.1.3.1. Pro: As we learn more in scientific fields, the parental characteristics deemed very good change, but the parental fitness and best interest standards used by U.S. courts will remain the same.
1.1.4. Pro: There is no clear consensus on what constitutes a good parent.
1.1.5. Con: There are factors that, either alone or together, make someone an unfit parent \(such as abuse, ability to provide a safe and stable environment, able to care the child's basic needs, or drug use\).
1.1.5.1. Con: Such people tend to be barred from parenting anyway, by social services or equivalents getting involved.
1.1.6. Con: There are certain fundamentals that remain intact; it is not all culturally relative.
1.1.7. Pro: In a perfect world everyone would offer a healthy, nurturing environment for a child to grow up in.  However, what constitutes a perfect and healthy environment has become a battleground of opinions and often not based on facts or studies.  We have a system that would work if it was not headed up by human beings with their own ideas about what is a correct environment for a child.  Because we even debate the sanctity of life perhaps the right to parent is a mute subject.
1.2. Pro: No one has a right to restrict another person's ability to reproduce.
1.2.1. Pro: The power to make these decisions it too easily corrupted or influenced by ideas such as class systems and religion.
1.2.2. Con: In jail you are restricted from reproducing.
1.2.3. Pro: Historically invasive and sexually abusive techniques have been used to restrict reproductive capacity among populations deemed undesirable.
1.2.4. Con: The right of reproduction isnt violated by not having the right to raise a child.
1.2.4.1. Con: Ironically, according to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights you do have an expressed liberty to have children; [¹](http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/) though, the method by which you have the children \(be it: Natural/Artificial Reproduction, Adoption, Surrogacy, et cetera\) is not established as a right.
1.2.5. Con: It is worth noting that what most consider to be 'Rights' are, in fact, Civil Liberties. Also, the main objective of any Government is to vigilantly ensure the safety & prosperity of the Government itself, so that it is capable of ensuring the safety & prosperity of its Citizens. If excessive reproduction were to compromise either of those things there is little which could be done to prevent a Government from denying that liberty to its Citizens \(were you to remain Governed by that Country\).
1.2.6. Pro: In order to regulate which citizens are allowed to have children, we would have to give the government the power to intervene in this basic biological and deeply personal principle. This government would have an immense ability to control peoples lives.
1.2.6.1. Con: Interference on a biological level is not necessary. People found to be unsuitable to raise children could be discouraged using taxes or other legal means.
1.2.6.1.1. Con: Taxing people in order to discourage rearing children just increases the burden on the child.
1.2.6.2. Pro: Its implementation would be expensive for the government as contraception and abortion will be mandatory thereby drastically increasing demands for both.
1.2.6.3. Con: In 2007, 36% of China's population was subject to a strict one-child restriction, with an additional 53% being allowed to have a second child if the first child was a girl. 

Provincial governments imposed fines for violations, and the local and national governments created commissions to raise awareness and carry out registration and inspection work. 

This sorts of birth control policies are driven by campaigns and comissions and could be manageable.
1.2.6.4. Con: If we determine the eligibility of someone to adopt and raise a child the same could be done for a biological parent.
1.2.7. Pro: There is no ethical way to prevent women from getting pregnant. As such it is their decision to become a parent or not.
1.2.7.1. Pro: Everyone should be allowed to reproduce. No external agent should have control over whether an individual should reproduce. A sufficiently educated \(not necessarily formally educated\) person is capable of making the right decision for themselves and their offspring, or at very least accepting the consequences of choosing to reproduce.
1.2.7.2. Con: Contraception and chemical sterility are both ethical if consented to.
1.2.8. Con: The right to reproduce should not automatically equal the right to raise the child - the state needs to be able to intervene to remove children from abusive parents.
1.2.8.1. Con: Abusive parents are already assumed to not be acceptable in the introductory text to this discussion.
1.2.8.2. Con: The U.S. Supreme Court has held that parents have a fundamental liberty interest in determining how their natural children are raised.
1.2.9. Pro: Everyone has the right to be a parent. This is a very slippery slope. Where does it end and who defines that stopping point? Say we do say that some people shouldn't. How are those people identified and at what point does it become eugenics?[newyorker.com](https://www.newyorker.com/books/page-turner/the-forgotten-lessons-of-the-american-eugenics-movement)
1.2.9.1. Con: Everyone surely has the right to make their own reproductive decisions, but no one has an absolute right to functionally be a parent.
1.2.10. Con: A majority of societies have legal or social rules that allow children to be taken from bad parents. If there was a way to temporarily prevent unfit persons from creating children, it would be to society's benefit.
1.3. Con: If somebody is in the position to decide who is allowed to be a parent, it is a potential  leverage to silent opponents by denying them the possibility to have  children.
1.4. Con: Not everyone has the ability to raise a child.
1.4.1. Pro: Other than abuse, as stated, there are other factors which should be taken into consideration such as \(some\) Cognitive, Developmental, and/or Psychological Disorders which would inhibit the ability to realistically raise a child in some capacity.
1.4.2. Pro: White parents, who have not been subjected to racism, do not know how to deal with it. Without that experience, white parents cannot help a black child learn how to deal with racism when they face it. Thus, they are unable to raise that child as needed.
1.4.3. Pro: There are too many children requiring adoption, in care, or otherwise not looked after sufficiently to pressure the idea of whether anybody 'should' be allowed to be a parent.
1.4.3.1. Con: The reason there are so many children who require adoption has nothing to do with the inherent ability of their parents. Rather, it's a result of a negligent society that doesn't support parents.
1.4.3.1.1. Con: When arguing for the individual right of a person to give birth and raise a child whilst ignoring the needs & restrictions of society, society can't be blamed for the outcome.
1.4.4. Con: You can't decide whether someone has the ability to raise a child before there is evidence.
1.4.4.1. Con: You can always create evidence on suitability to raise a child \(or perform any task\) it is called background checks and testing.
1.4.4.1.1. Pro: You can also require expecting or potential parents to undergo counseling or psychological assessment.
1.4.4.1.2. Con: These tests tend to be unreliable and based on [ableist myths](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/paul-heroux/disability-and-discrimina_b_5616446.html?guccounter=1), if not [racism](https://daily.jstor.org/when-forced-sterilization-was-legal-in-the-u-s/) or cultural discrimination.
1.4.5. Pro: New parents can find themselves overwhelmed, and sometimes barely recover; some form of monitoring may help those who struggle to effectively parent.
1.4.6. Pro: People being in possession of a criminal record won't be able to raise a child.
1.4.6.1. Con: A criminal record may only consist of petty thievery, or crimes committed historically; it is absurd to think that a criminal record automatically renders somebody incapable of raising a child.
1.4.6.2. Pro: It is irresponsible to allow criminals to raise children, when they might pass on their disrespect for the legal system.
1.4.6.3. Con: Only people with specific crimes on their criminal record should be forbidden to raise a child \(molesting of children and any alike\).
1.5. Con: The right of the unborn child to grow up safely, with caring and able parents, is more important than the right of a parent to have a child.
1.5.1. Pro: The child of a pedophile or of a criminal would not grow in a safe environment.
1.5.1.1. Con: This grossly oversimplifies matters. Distasteful though it may be for some to consider, a paedophile can be an excellent parent and never cross any boundaries, and a criminal can easily raise children without their safety being compromised. These things are not so binary.
1.5.1.1.1. Con: According to a study of IPEA from Brazil, 70% of the rapes are committed by relatives, boyfriends or friends / acquaintances of the victim. While in cases of child abuse we see that 24.1% of child abusers are the parents or stepfathers themselves.

[www.bbc.com](http://www.bbc.com/portuguese/brasil-36401054)
1.5.1.2. Pro: People convicted as child molesters are considered incapable of raising a child in most countries, being that in court it is a decisive matter in order to lose a child's custody to another relative or present parent.
1.5.2. Pro: [34% of people who sexually abuse a child are family members of the child.](https://www.nsvrc.org/statistics)
1.5.3. Pro: There are many psychopaths who want to raise a child by physically, emotionally and sexually abusing it. Clearly they should not have the right to do so.
1.5.3.1. Pro: Domestic Violence services, such as advocates and legal aid, specifically look for this when talking to clients and when children are involved.
1.5.3.2. Con: "the right to do so"? Who grants this right? Nature or the community? Both cannot definitively know if someone will abuse their child. Nature doesn't care if the child is abused as long as it goes on to reproduce, the goal of an organism is to become two organisms. The community only cares when the so called abuse runs against what the community collectively believes, the goal of a community is to raise a child to one day contribute to the common belief.
1.5.4. Con: There is no way which we can determine who is a caring and able parents without resorting to tyranny.
1.5.4.1. Con: We can determine who does not have the means to raise a child.  So until such time as society guarantees the means, a safe home free of abuse, and all the opportunities for education and positive future it should think twice about endorsing everyone and anyone raising children.
1.5.4.2. Con: The dictionary definition of tyranny is "cruel and oppressive government or rule".  Observing someone is incapable of raising children and avoiding future suffering and abuse of children does not fit "cruel and oppressive". It could be argued allowing people to raise children you know will not be cared and will be abused is cruel and oppressive to those future lives.
1.5.4.3. Con: United States courts often use the "best interests of the child" standard when assessing who should get custody or be considered the legal or residential parent.
1.5.5. Con: Your claim suggests that an unborn child has rights. But an unborn child can never exist unless the parents exercise their ability to conceive a child.
1.5.5.1. Con: How do I know that my car won't survive crashing into a wall before I do so? In some cases - history of illness, financial standing and such, it's very clear that children will be affected.
1.5.5.2. Con: A child that is born will have rights and it is perfectly reasonable to consider them and balance them against any claimed "right to procreate".
1.5.6. Pro: We could consider restricting rights to parenting only if the government had in place an alternative system which is better for the children. This has not been accomplished yet.  Foster parenting programs are themselves riddled with abuse cases, etc.
1.6. Pro: Anyone should get the chance to prove they are a good parent.
1.6.1. Con: A proof of the ability to be a good parent can be produced without putting an actual child at harm, similarly to how you need prove to be a suitable parent if you wish to adopt a child.
1.6.2. Con: This chance could mean to put a life of a child at risk. Just because someone think they can be a good parent that does not mean they will be.
1.6.3. Pro: Being a parent is a great learning experience all should experience. If you fail miserably then there are laws to have your kids taken away.
1.7. Pro: Parenting is a choice between husband and wife, and nothing should interfere with their decision.
1.7.1. Con: Parenting is a choice for an individual, this is the act of raising a child. Procreating is a choice which \(usually\)involves the donation of a sperm and an egg.
1.7.2. Con: Parents are not the only people affected. Thus, all involved parties should take part in the decision process.
1.7.2.1. Con: Parents play the most important role in the first stage of someones life.
1.7.2.1.1. Con: Which is why we should be very careful as to who can and can't be a proper parent. Biological parents won't always be able to raise their child.
1.7.3. Con: Parenting can also be a choice between two men or women. However, they aren't able to have children like husband and wife can.
1.7.4. Con: Regardless of sexuality, anyone should have the right to raise a child.
1.7.4.1. Pro: Despite some common myth to the contrary, [studies have shown](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/adopting-reason/201611/kids-can-thrive-gay-parents) that children thrive in households with gay parents.
1.7.4.2. Con: Some believe that, with a member of the opposite sex absent, a child may not have the necessary male/female role model they require to grow up in a balanced way.
1.7.4.2.1. Con: Evidence does not support this view. A belief is not sufficient reason to restrict a person's human rights.
1.7.4.3. Pro: Two men or women can raise a child as well as heterosexual parents can.
1.8. Con: People should be tested on their parenting before being allowed to be a parent. Similar to a driver's license.
1.8.1. Con: People often learn to parent in response to experience, so needing a license ahead of time would falsely label parents as being incapable.
1.8.1.1. Con: Being able to provide for a child is not something that you can learn. A child is an additional financial burden that needs to be accounted for beforehand.
1.8.1.1.1. Con: Financial capacity is not a stable trait, and the problem can be solved with community support. This argument is just used to justify discrimination against the poor.
1.8.1.1.1.1. Con: Burdening the community because of selfishness is unfair. There might be legal claim to support in some countries, but this is a privilege of society, not a natural claim.
1.8.1.2. Pro: Caring for a child is very much a skill that can be learned. [Parenting Courses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parent_education_program)
1.8.2. Con: This leads to a blind loyalty to authority.
1.8.3. Con: If you test it before giving birth it can be misused for any political purpose. For example: not being permitted to have children, because people of a certain ethnicity are "known" for being \[any negative attribute\].
1.8.4. Con: There is no uniform standard for parenting. There are various styles of parenting, and none is seen as the better way of raising children accross the board. This would be a difficult test to conduct.
1.8.4.1. Con: Family Law and adoption agencies have both contemplated this- we could use these predicates to help determine whether someone is fit to be a parent.
1.8.5. Pro: Basic parenting skills - including the fundamentals of child welfare - are not always adhered to; for the sake of the child's health it is safer to assess options.
1.8.6. Con: This could lead to government intrusion into very private and personal decisions.
1.9. Pro: -> See 1.7.4.
1.10. Con: Because of overpopulation not anyone should be allowed to be a parent.
1.10.1. Con: Overpopulated regions tend to be populated by minorities, and thus overpopulation arguments are actually just masked eugenics.
1.10.2. Pro: The population needs to be regulated in order to avoid an increase of the overpopulation problem.
1.10.2.1. Pro: "The majority of studies estimate that the Earth's 'sustainable' capacity is at or beneath 8 billion people." [¹](https://www.science.org.au/curious/earth-environment/how-many-people-can-earth-actually-support) We're at approximately 7,6 billion people currently, [²](http://www.worldometers.info/world-population/) and the aforementioned 8 billion people is the projected population for Mid-2024. [³](https://esa.un.org/unpd/wpp/)
1.10.3. Con: [Overpopulation](https://www.google.ie/amp/s/dictionary.cambridge.org/amp/english/overpopulated) is defined as having too many people for the resources in a particular region. Therefore the issue may not be population size, but resource efficiency. A reduction in waste or a redistribution of resources may be of more use that implementing strict childbearing laws or controls.
1.10.3.1. Pro: Unlimited efficiency is not possible. Further, current trends in food production, [energy consumption](https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/EG.USE.PCAP.KG.OE), co2 production etc. show that efficiency improves much, much slower than [population is growing](https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.POP.TOTL). Finally, countries with the least efficiency tend to have the largest population growth.
1.10.4. Con: A lot of places that are overpopulated e.g. India are as such due to the high infant mortality rate and the need for larger families to work, generate more income, and care for the previous generation in the family. A restriction cannot be placed on that area as simply as in a more developed region. It would be unjust to do so.
1.10.4.1. Con: Which it may not be as just as one would wish for, sometimes - for the greater good of the world' population, such things must be done.
1.10.5. Con: Forcibly preventing people from becoming parents isnt the answer to overpopulation. If you wish to end overpopulation then support the education of young women. Studies clearly show educating women result in moderate family sizes with healthier individuals, within the family group and better more efficient use of local resources.[unesco.org](http://www.unesco.org/education/tlsf/mods/theme_c/popups/mod13t01s005.html)
1.10.6. Pro: Allowing someone to procreate ad-infinitum beyond their means to care for herself and those babies places a burden on society to care for them.  Therefore society should have a say in the process.
1.10.7. Pro: Creating a child is often not a controlled choice. Sexual education must be mandatory and birth control must be free and ubiquitous before this argument can be considered.
1.10.7.1. Con: This may well be a way to implement precisely what this debate is talking about, and so shouldn't be considered a problem.