Discussion Title: Should society work towards becoming "colorblind" in regards to race/ethnicity?

1. Society should work towards becoming "colorblind" in regards to race/ethnicity.
1.1. Con: There will always be implicit bias that prevents true "colorblindness".
1.1.1. Pro: Race is one of the easiest categories to observe. Since humans have a propensity to categorize everything in their environment, it follows that we also have a propensity to categorize people into races.
1.1.2. Con: Implicit bias is fuelled by society in the first instance so by working towards removing it in the workplace it will negate this.
1.1.3. Pro: Not everyone strives for it, whichever the race or ethnicity. And again, remove one way for people to differentiate and potentially judge each other on and a new one will pop up.
1.2. Con: Race/ethnicity may be a positive identifier for some people, and something which makes them feel like they belong within a group. A colorblind society would remove that.
1.2.1. Pro: It is useful for people to be able to build communities based on similarities, and when people of the same race experience particular things, this can help them bond.
1.2.2. Pro: A colorblind society is likely one that would discourage people from focusing on race. However, race links people to certain histories that are valid and that we should not aim to ignore or erase.
1.2.3. Con: People are individuals. Their identity is unique and separate from any group they may feel a connection with.
1.2.4. Con: An identity is just a culture. Which is just a collection of ideas and memes. It is always possible to share parts of your "identity" with a race that is not your own.
1.2.5. Pro: As Audre Lorde once said, "It is not our differences that divide us. It is our inability to recognize, accept, and celebrate those differences."
1.2.6. Pro: Celebrating racial or ethnic difference promotes a more harmonious society than ignoring that difference.
1.2.7. Pro: Race and ethnicity definitely belong in society because they can be tied to culture. Where it becomes dangerous is when people decide to use it to victimize themselves in order to make their beliefs and opinions more valid than others.
1.2.8. Con: Encouraging people to build groups based on race bolsters segregation.
1.3. Pro: Since racism is an ideology based upon the belief that races are separate and hierarchically organized, "colorblindness" is the only logical end to racism.
1.3.1. Con: That's like saying the way to cure a wound is to ignore it. You aren't so much in conflict with "ideological racism" as much as you are with the human condition.
1.3.1.1. Con: The argument is being made that ideological/altruistic "colourblindness" would leave no basis for racism to occur in the first place, primarily because there has to be a distinction between races based on colour of skin in order for racism to occur.
1.3.1.2. Con: This statement is essentially equivocating social health with human health. Similar fallacies are used to describe other social constructions and institutions as being analagous to human body parts [jstor.org](https://www.jstor.org/stable/2741987?seq=1#metadata_info_tab_contents) which have different levels of complexities than the analogous counterparts
1.3.2. Pro: A "colorblind" society would not include subconscious biases that exist due to racial stereotypes and profiling in today's society.
1.4. Pro: There is [little to no scientific basis](https://www.nationalgeographic.com/magazine/2018/04/race-genetics-science-africa/) for the concept of race. Humanity should move past it.
1.4.1. Con: There are clear differences in people of different races that affect their lives. For example incidence of Tay–Sachs disease among Ashkenazi Jews.
1.4.2. Con: The fact that [race](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_\(human_categorization\)#Biological_classification) is partially based on biology and also [socially constructed](https://www.livescience.com/53613-race-is-social-construct-not-scientific.html), does not negate the fact that it has been a reason to discriminate and oppress for centuries.
1.4.3. Pro: Skin colors are only skin deep. They ought to be totally insignificant. Rather than giving skin color such huge importance, and effectively creating divisions that take on a life of their own, let's focus on what we all have in common as human beings, which is far more significant.
1.4.3.1. Pro: Treating skin colour the same way we treat hair colour or eye colour is the only way to move forward. To imagine anyone showing preference or bigotry to hair colour is ridiculous. This is how it should be with race.
1.5. Pro: If society was "colorblind" in regards to race, we would treat each other truly as equals and individuals, rather than as categories.
1.5.1. Pro: Society should not consider ethnicity or race when it is not pertinent for the distribution of a certain good or competition for a position. Because, first, race has nothing to do with the competence or skill for a given position. Second, because race has nothing to with your capacity to access certain goods.
1.5.2. Con: However, since society does not function that way yet, ignoring structural discrimination based on race only contributes to not eradicating racism.
1.5.2.1. Con: This is not an actual argument against the ideal of colorblindness. It is true that ignoring issues that are current is unhelpful, but the ideal of colorblindness must presuppose that issues have been fully addressed. However, if there is no goal of colorblindness being worked toward, then pursuing only differentiation will not lead to any shared equality based on some elements of the human person which unite, those beyond race.
1.5.3. Pro: Society should work towards being colorblind.  There has been obvious progress \(fair employment act, voting rights act, outlawing redlining, etc\).  However, racism still exists in society \(driving while black, conviction rates far higher for blacks than whites - for similar crimes\).  There is still a lot of work to do, but progress is being made.
1.5.4. Con: Humans can't resist categorical organization. Even if society was 'colorblind' to race, there are myriad other ways in which people will discriminate.
1.5.5. Pro: People will regard each other's character based on their individual thought, opinion, and actions rather than based on their connection to whatever group the belong to identity-wise.
1.5.6. Pro: What race you are is about as important as what hand you use to write with. Being left-handed used to be all the proof needed to prove you were a witch and have you publicly executed.[Read this about being left-handed.](https://allthatsinteresting.com/left-handedness-evil) The reason it isn't an issue today is that people realized there was nothing wrong with it and we have moved past it as a society. You don't have to ignore what race you are the same way you don't have to ignore what hand you write with, it just shouldn't matter to you.
1.6. Pro: Intellect and responsibility for one's self and their family should be regarded, rather than race, in society.
1.6.1. Con: Ideally. However, most racism today is institutional, and unavoidable despite blanket attempts to be blind to color.
1.7. Con: "Colorblindness" ignores the current realities of how someone's race affects them in daily life.
1.7.1. Con: Colourblindness is not ignoring discrimination, but a social goal we should aim towards. Race is a biologically empty lie that is only entrenched through discrimination; its history is a reason to destroy the framework, not to glorify it.
1.7.2. Con: Colorblindlness will solve the problem of race affecting people in their daily life, as ethniticity will not be taken into account, resulting in equal treatment of racial majority and miniority.
1.7.2.1. Con: Institutional racism prevents the average person from not taking ethnicity into account.
1.7.3. Pro: Race is a real phenomenon, called subspeciation in other animals, and it should not be ignored as different behavior means different needs.
1.7.4. Pro: We should combat racism, but not pretend to be "colourblind". No person minds the fact that you can see they are black, they mind the fact that they are given less job opportunities and are discriminated against in other ways. You can be interested in their culture, their food and their experience without being racist.
1.7.5. Pro: Minorities face disadvantages, solely due to their race, that majority races don't have to face.  These disadvantages cannot be ignored.
1.7.5.1. Con: A colorblind society would solve these disadvantages precisely because it is colorblind!  If members of society ignore race, they won't treat anyone differently because of their race.
1.7.5.1.1. Con: A completely colourblind society would indeed have that effect; however, we do not yet live in that kind of society, so if you as an individual decide to call yourself colourblind you effectively exclude yourself from the debate and deny what is happening in the world around yourself.
1.7.6. Pro: This will lead to "gas lighting." People have been, and are targeted because of their race. How can they defend themselves, if we claim that race/color does not exist?
1.7.6.1. Pro: Gaslighting is a tactic, usually employed by an insecure perpetrator who feels threatened by and therefore seeks, to nullify the victim's personal power, leading to intended confusion, self-doubt, anxiety, and reduced confidence and self-esteem.
1.7.7. Con: Out of scope from original stance. "Should society work towards...." meaning: is it a worthy end-goal. Outside of scope is current realities which this point is addressing.
1.7.8. Con: Those realities are present in part to societal insistence that color be seen.
1.8. Pro: Colorblind in the sense that ones race should have nothing to do with a possible job or university application, for example.
1.9. Con: We should first work towards correcting the faults of racism which affect minorities today.  Until these faults are corrected, we cannot work on "ignoring" people's ethnicities.
1.9.1. Pro: Society should encourage all people to take pride in who they are. Furthermore we should see inequality as a prerequisite to unity.
1.9.2. Con: It may be impossible to completely correct the faults of racism, in which case it would be preferable to live in a world where race is not a factor.
1.9.3. Pro: Ending racism is to acknowledge and deconstruct. Ignoring it does not make disappear.
1.9.4. Pro: Intentional cognitive suppression backfires in the end, better to directly address issues through honest debate.
1.9.5. Con: The only way to have equality is to treat everyone as equals.
1.10. Con: If society were to totally ignore race and ethnicity, important uniqueness and valuable history would be more easily forgotten.