Discussion Title: Should there be a term limit for all elected officials?

1. There should be a term limit for all elected officials.
1.1. Con: A system is more democratic if voters can decide what they want without institutional restraints.
1.2. Con: Longer term times allow officials to gain experience.
1.2.1. Pro: Newer elected officials are less likely to hold their own against appointed officials.
1.2.2. Pro: Newer elected officials are more likely to get caught up in the bureaucracy of the role.
1.2.3. Pro: A longer time "in-seat" allows an incumbent to better leverage their social capital and name recognition to push policy decisions that matter to them.
1.2.3.1. Con: If a politician remains in office due to nothing more than their "social capital" and name recognition and not because they are being effective or faithfully representing their constituents or states, that is worse than having someone new in the ofice.
1.2.4. Con: Voters could become disenchanted if they perceive the elections as "rigged" in the incumbent's favor--discouraging voter participation and awareness of issues.
1.2.5. Pro: One of the biggest challenges facing large institutions is institutional memory. Term limits would lead to regular change of elected officials, meaning valuable experience and knowledge would be lost too.
1.2.5.1. Pro: Every time that a new candidate comes in, they are likely to want to start afresh in order to 'make their mark' on the job. This undoes valuable work done in the past.
1.3. Con: Longer term limits contribute to greater stability.
1.3.1. Pro: If there are strict term limits that are not long enough, there may be fewer candidates willing to change their lives to do a role that doesn't lead to a stable career.
1.3.1.1. Con: Elected office is not intended as a career.  It should be a service for a short time, then return to productive work.
1.4. Pro: By having term limits, you minimise the incentives for bribery/collusion.
1.4.1. Con: A politician who has limited time to make legitimate money in office is more likely to be tempted to turn to illegal income sources to make up the difference.
1.4.2. Con: With term limits, elected officials are more susceptible to the corruption through the "revolving door" phenomenon. If they see a chance of a high paying position in the private industry after their term ends, they might do favors for that industry.
1.4.2.1. Con: The "revolving door" exists without term limits; they i.e. term limits are immaterial to the existence of revolving doors. This is shown by the exchange between lobbyists and the Civil Service.
1.4.3. Pro: When leaders know they can stay in office indefinitely, they often expand their power in unlawful and dictatorial ways. There is no reason to do this when strict term limits are safely in place.
1.4.3.1. Pro: China and Turkey are good examples for the danger of a lack of term limits.
1.4.4. Pro: Term limits mean that a corrupt official, who leaves office can no longer "cover up" their corruption.
1.5. Con: Term limits would deprive us of the continued service of exceptional representatives and leaders whose abilities surpass their competitors.
1.6. Con: Term limits are unnecessary as voters can replace politicians in every voting cycle.
1.7. Pro: Term limits reduces the chances of "safe seats" being formed.
1.7.1. Con: The seats are often safe because a party dominates in an area. Changing the person representing the party is unlikely to make a seat less safe in such areas.
1.7.2. Pro: In all elections, the incumbent has an advantage. This doesn't mean they're actually the best person for the job.
1.7.2.1. Pro: Incumbents have an advantage in name recognition and can point to successes or spin their record as a success.
1.8. Pro: Terms limits will force the elected representatives to focus on actual issues that they were elected to do.
1.8.1. Con: There is a chance that towards the end of their tenure, the public officials can become "lame-duck", knowing that no matter what they do, they can't get re-elected.
1.9. Pro: Term limits will allow those with newer/fresh ideas to put them to work.
1.9.1. Pro: Over time viewpoints and philosophies change, therefore elected officials must change to reflect that.
1.9.2. Pro: Term limits will allow women & minority candidates to more easily obtain office as they do not have to beat an incumbent.