Discussion Title: Should Major League Soccer adopt promotion/relegation?

1. Major League Soccer should adopt promotion/relegation.
1.1. Pro: Adds extra excitement of promotion/relegation playoffs every year, along with MLS cup.
1.1.1. Pro: Lower league American Teams \(if they exist\) get a chance to enter the MLS \(provided they can afford to take part\).
1.2. Pro: -> See 1.1.1.
1.3. Con: Existing MLS Teams would instantly disagree due to potentially monetary losses, decisions would have to be final by the league authority.
1.4. Pro: Increases competition and reduces incentives for complacency.
1.5. Con: Goes against competition format of all major US sports.
1.5.1. Con: "Nobody else does it" is not necessarily a justification for doing the same.

They could be all wrong, especially considering that once on does something one way, others will follow and do the same, without ever considering alternative, better, ways.
1.5.2. Con: "the same sport, in other nations" is much more relevant than "different sports, in the same nation"
1.6. Con: May reduce interest of investors in a growing league.
1.6.1. Con: Would actually promote good investing: if you do not do a good job with your team, you will be punished.
1.7. Con: Difficult to reconcile with East/West divisions setup.
1.7.1. Con: Many conferences employ a pyramidal structure. The lower you go, the more leagues there are, more and more regionally localised.
1.7.2. Con: You may have east and west branches, both with a promotion/relegation system, and having the two top premier division fight for the title with some general play-offs.
1.8. Pro: Brings MLS in line with all major competitions in Europe and elsewhere in the world.
1.8.1. Pro: At the moment, MLS is not perceived as real football by the rest of the world because of its closed-up structure. A move towards promotion/relegation would bring the sport in American more global respect.
1.9. Pro: Gives lower league competitions like NASL and USL more legitimacy by placing more importance on the final standings.
1.9.1. Con: "Promotion / relegation" usually means that there's a single Conference with multiple Divisions. So, the lower Divisions may have some autonomy, but they are still part of the same Conference, not independent entities.
1.10. Pro: Gives more importance to the overall performance of a team on the season, as opposed to caring only about MLS cup which is less indicative of a team's consistent strength.
1.10.1. Pro: At present, the only way into the top flight is with a $150m buy-in. A move to promotion/relegation would reward talent, rather than wealth, thereby improving overall football performance.
1.11. Con: Asks US sports fans to embrace the concept of an overall "league winner" when US sports fans have only ever known success as winning a playoff-style championship.
1.11.1. Con: You can have both promotions/relegations and playoffs/playouts.