Discussion Title: Should Kids Under 13 Have Access to Electronics?

1. Kids under age of 13 shouldn't have access to computers, tablets and smartphones.
1.1. Con: Knowing how to use digital technology is crucial for their future life. Becoming digital natives is therefore important.
1.1.1. Con: Smartphones and other digital platforms do not have a steep learning curve. They are fairly simple and intuitive and their use can easily be mastered within a span of a few months.
1.1.2. Pro: Like it or not, the internet is part of our world. Prohibiting access to it would be like if 100 years ago we prohibited children from going into the library - which some people did!
1.2. Con: If children have a smartphone they can be reached and monitored easier by their parents.
1.2.1. Con: This could be construed as an invasion of privacy.
1.2.1.1. Con: Children willingly share their experiences through Facebook or Instagram.
1.2.2. Con: When children are monitored by their parents like this, they might not learn to be responsible for themselves as well.
1.2.3. Pro: Children can call 911 in case of emergency.
1.3. Con: Children can communicate with one another more easily, allowing for closer bonded friendships.
1.3.1. Pro: Kids might be alienated from their peers if they are the only ones in class without access to such things.
1.3.2. Con: They can also more easily bully one another anonymously.
1.4. Con: The Internet allows for access to more research, knowledge and resources; this is immensely important for young, developing minds.
1.4.1. Pro: Internet access can help kids in abusive situations realize that their home life is not normal.
1.4.2. Pro: The Internet offers access to different viewpoints from those of their families. Young kids who would otherwise have grown up sheltered and with regressive and harmful views can learn to question their parents through Internet resources.
1.4.3. Pro: Internet research may be the only way that young people can find out about topics which affect them, e.g. a child who feels they may be LGBT+ can find information about \(and support for issues with\) sexuality and gender online that their parents or schools may be unwilling to give them.
1.4.4. Pro: Most teachers now set homework assignments which require some level of internet access or use of computer software.
1.5. Pro: Children will have a real childhood.
1.5.1. Con: 'Real' childhood is extremely relative; just because it is different from previous generations does not make it automatically worse or 'unreal'.
1.5.2. Con: This an example of the "[No True Scotsman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_true_Scotsman)" fallacy; there is no authority as to what a "real" or "true" childhood is, and therefore, we cannot know if a childhood with internet electronics is not a "real" childhood.
1.6. Pro: The kids will create more meaningful and deep childhood friends and memories.
1.7. Pro: Encouraging outdoor activities can lead to healthier children, and potentially lessen obesity by promoting active play.
1.8. Pro: Addiction To Smartphones Is Equal To [Drug Addiction](https://fossbytes.com/addiction-to-smartphones-is-equal-to-drug-addiction/)
1.9. Pro: Children will learn social skills.
1.9.1. Con: Kids MAY learn social skills if internet is prohibited. Kids may also learn bad social skills by playing with others outside with bad social skills.

If given access to the internet children MAY be exposed to a variety of social skills they would otherwise not encounter from many cultures around the world.
1.9.2. Con: Kids will end up settling with what they have, which may be bad. The internet allows kids to socialize with people like them, rather than someone who will be a bad influence.