Discussion Title: Should Burning The US Flag Be Illegal?

1. Burning the US flag should be against the law.
1.1. Pro: Burning a flag doesn't make any coherent point, so making it illegal would be a good way to have an excuse to arrest idiots.
1.1.1. Con: That is the definition of bending the law to harm people simply because you do not like them.
1.1.2. Con: Who is to say that that burning something doesn't make a point? Non-verbal expression is protected under the First Amendment. Every act or expression can mean something different from person to person, and some people could see it as making a coherent point.
1.1.2.1. Con: If you aren't saying something, you aren't making a point. It is totally useless. All it could be is an expression of vague hatred for America, which could be argued is a kind of sedition.
1.1.2.1.1. Pro: This country is founded on sedition. Rather than submit to the current authority, our founding fathers decided to rebel and make rules more suited to their liking. Our First Amendment right gives us the power to suggest doing the same. We may express that right though non-verbal expression \(for example burning something, using your middle finger, and having vulgarity printed on your clothing, all cases taught in American Law 101 in community college\) as ruled by the Supreme Court.
1.1.2.1.2. Con: Someone doesn't need to "say something" in order to make a point.
1.1.3. Con: Being unintelligent is not a crime.
1.1.4. Con: If an excuse needs to be found in order to arrest someone, that arrest is inherently unjust and therefore a bad decision.
1.1.5. Con: It makes a singular, clear point: contempt, disgust, and lack of respect for the state of the country it is attacking. The illegality notwithstanding, the point is clear and visible, and the right to make it should be protected.
1.2. Con: Americans are unique in their overzealous banning of flag-burning. Other nations are not so attached to their symbols, and recognise that it is just a symbol.
1.2.1. Con: This notwithstanding, it does not remove the importance of the flag to certain Americans, and so it should be respected for their sake.
1.2.1.1. Con: Law is not built on personal feelings. Offending someone is not illegal.
1.3. Con: Banning flag-burning would violate the 1st Amendment.
1.3.1. Pro: Yes- under [Texas v. Johnson](https://www.oyez.org/cases/1988/88-155), flag-burning is consider constitutionally protected speech under the 1st Amendment.
1.4. Con: It isn't against the law for an individual to damage something they own, nor should it be.
1.4.1. Pro: If it is burning someone else's property or causes damage to someone else's property, that would be a crime.
1.4.2. Pro: To tell somebody they can't do what they want with their own piece of cloth, regardless of what pictures are on it, is tyrannical and the opposite of freedom.
1.4.3. Pro: It should be legal - there is no one directly harmed by the flag being burnt.
1.5. Pro: People died for that flag.
1.5.1. Con: They died to protect their country; the flag itself is irrelevant.
1.5.2. Con: People died to protect the rights of all U.S. citizens which include freedom of speech.
1.5.3. Con: People died for countries that have committed atrocious crimes, including totalitarian regimes. That does not mean that this makes burning the flag of these countries against the law.
1.5.4. Con: The flag is a symbol of an idea or a group of ideas, that vary, multiply, and/or die off over time. As well its a fabric of some sort, and signifiers and fabrics have every right to be burned as long as no one is harmed. No single person ever died for a flag, they died because of a flag and there is an extreme difference between the two. They died because of an idea, a fabric, an ideology.
1.5.5. Con: People did not die for a flag. They died to protect our families & countrymen.
1.5.6. Con: People also died for us to have the right to burn the flag.
1.5.7. Con: The oath service members take is to the Constitution, not the flag.
1.6. Pro: There are other ways to voice disapproval without burning the flag and insulting all of America.
1.6.1. Con: Burning the flag seems to be a particularly effective demonstration of disapproval, if not the most effective.
1.6.2. Con: Burning a symbol is not inherently disrespectful to that symbol or what it represents. The perception of disrespect is subjective.
1.6.3. Con: Insulting America shouldn't be illegal either, since both fall under the category of freedom of speech.
1.6.4. Con: Burning of the flag is part of our free expression. We see the US flag on everything incl. clothes, cups, mugs, stickers etc. We don't see these uses as a violation of the flag's honor. Yes, it is a symbol. But protests by burning a flag doesn't change what it stands for or the honor it carries. We don't always share the same opinion about things, but sharing an opinion should never be restricted or considered illegal.
1.6.4.1. Pro: The examples you listed are violations of the [flag code](http://www.usflag.org/uscode36.html). Though the code is unenforcable due to the first amendment, it remains a guide on proper respect for the flag.
1.7. Con: Freedom of speech extends to non verbal acts. To express yourself in a creative way, such as burning something, is American at its core.
1.7.1. Pro: Even veterans, oft assumed to universally oppose flag burning, support its legality: [www.aclu.org](https://www.aclu.org/other/their-own-words-compendium-veterans-quotes-against-flag-desecration-amendment). Gary May, who lost both legs to a landmine explosion while serving in Vietnam: "Ultimately, my responsibility was to support and defend the protestors' under the First Amendment to the Constitution to freely express their opinion, even if I disagreed with what they were saying."
1.7.2. Pro: It is [patriotic](https://youtu.be/ukURt2TsEwY) to burn the flag.
1.7.3. Pro: Though disrespectful, it is important for people to peacefully display their hatred of the current government without retaliation.
1.8. Pro: This is something that should be off limits, the American flag is something beyond a symbol for many.
1.8.1. Con: Symbols do not have rights to be violated, no matter what someone may think of that symbol.
1.8.2. Con: This argument contradicts the first amendment. Limiting the first amendment will lead to many more limits to freedom of speech being added; a slippery slope.
1.9. Con: If the government gets permission to stop an individual's right to speak in this way, they will figure out how to stop people from speaking in other ways. This is a very slippery slope.
1.9.1. Con: The slippery slope argument is fallacious unless it contains concrete steps as to how the proclaimed consequences may come to pass. \([en.m.wikipedia.org](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slippery_slope)\)