Discussion Title: Should public nudity be legal?

1. Public nudity should be legal.
1.1. Con: Nudity can negatively impact public gatherings
1.1.1. Con: Nudity may also add to gatherings, for example by allowing to people to fully enjoy them the way they want \(if that means attending them naked\).
1.1.2. Con: There are many things that can negatively impact public gatherings that are allowed and/or legal. The potential for negative impact is no reason for forbidding something.
1.1.3. Pro: People who do not want to see nudity might become more hesitant to attend public events, for example political rallies and demonstrations. This would harm society.
1.2. Pro: Public nudity would help to relax attitudes towards human bodies and normalize it in its natural form.
1.2.1. Con: If the normalization of the body's natural form means that overweight and obesity become more acceptable, this might incentivize people to not seek a healthy lifestyle.
1.2.1.1. Con: Seeing the full body of healthy individuals may cause overweight individuals to feel self-conscious. This may lead to said individuals refraining from leaving their homes, worsening their conditions.
1.3. Con: Children and other people may be traumatized by seeing public nudity.
1.3.1. Con: There is no reason to assume that children would experience trauma from seeing naked bodies.
1.3.2. Con: The trauma may be the result of negative constructs and education around nudity. Nudity per se is not in any way harmful.
1.3.3. Con: Seeing nudity isn't traumatic on it's own. Nevertheless, it may be traumatizing if it includes for example sexual behaviour.
1.3.4. Con: If seeing someone naked is traumatic, all children are in trouble as they see family members naked at some point.
1.3.5. Con: People would most likely get used to nudity once it becomes more prevalent.
1.4. Pro: Allowing public nudity might have a positive impact on issues such as public breast feeding and streaking.
1.4.1. Pro: Public nudity may also help to desexualise the human anatomy, and thus reduce sexual crime.
1.5. Pro: Allowing public nudity would eliminate the arbitrary distinction between what is allowed for men and women in terms of revealing one's body.
1.6. Con: Law should reflect the rules of the society. Clothing has been around for so long that it's become [integral part](http://www.bbc.com/earth/story/20160919-the-real-origin-of-clothes) of most human societies.
1.6.1. Pro: Even if not needed in certain climates, cultures have developed such rules which would be really difficult to overturn and would be resisted should a law permitting nudity be enacted.
1.6.2. Con: In western culture about a 100 years ago people were still disgusted by the view of male nipples and showing legs was frowned upon. Moral: views change.
1.7. Pro: An abundance of public nudity will encourage people living a healthy life for a healthy physique, which they otherwise not only could, but also should disguise behind a garment, without any excuse.
1.7.1. Pro: People living a healthier life-style in a society will reduce not only the eating and weight disorders, but also many other diseases and disorders in that society.
1.7.2. Con: Current clothing norms already put plenty of emphasis on body shape. Not much would change therefore.
1.8. Pro: People in public places are not forced to stay in those areas.
1.8.1. Con: Some public spaces are hard to avoid, for example town squares and areas around government buildings.
1.8.2. Con: People outside of public places may still be able to see naked people on public places.
1.9. Pro: Preventing people from expressing themselves freely in public places is a breach of liberty
1.9.1. Con: Liberty is often breached for the sake of public safety, such as not being allowed to yell "bomb" on an airplane.
1.9.1.1. Con: This applies to private places, not public places.
1.9.2. Con: Exposing others to nudity can also be a breach of liberty, and in particular of the liberty from sexual harassment as which involuntary exposure to nudity can be interpreted.
1.10. Con: People are free to be naked in their own home.
1.10.1. Con: Other freedoms are not restricted to one's personal space, for example the freedom of expressing one's opinion and freedom of religion.