Discussion Title: Should the electoral college be abolished?

1. The electoral college should be abolished.
1.1. Con: The electoral college reduces the probability that electoral mechanisms fail.
1.1.1. Pro: The electoral college protects us from the "[tumult and disorder](http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/fed68.asp)" of an election in which the entire nation chooses the president directly.
1.1.1.1. Con: The contested election of Hayes in 1876 and the resulting [Compromise of 1877](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compromise_of_1877) generated great political strife, nearly reigniting the Civil War and resulting in the withdrawal of federal troops from the South.
1.1.1.2. Pro: The electoral college protects elections from the capricious and easily swayed nature of public opinion.
1.1.1.2.1. Pro: Factcheck.org wrote an amazingly short, but concise [article](https://www.factcheck.org/2008/02/the-reason-for-the-electoral-college/) about the requirement for an electoral college.  The fact that those sent are not fulfilling the concept of the electoral college is not the fault of the institution, but those sent there to represent the people's voice.
1.1.1.2.2. Con: As practiced today, the electoral college no longer acts as a buffer against violent swings of public opinion.
1.1.1.2.2.1. Pro: The mechanisms through which the electoral college was intended to provide obstacles to corruption and manipulation of presidential elections are no longer effective as the college is used today. That is to say that they no longer provide that advantage over direct popular vote.
1.1.1.2.2.1.1. Pro: In direct violation of the spirit of the original intent, electors no longer use their own judgment in choosing a president. Instead they are told who to vote for, and in most cases are prohibited by law from voting for anyone else.
1.1.1.2.2.1.1.1. Pro: The original intent was that the electoral college would use their own judgement to choose the best president.
1.1.1.2.2.1.1.1.1. Pro: "It was equally desirable, that the immediate election should be made by men most capable of analyzing the qualities adapted to the station, and acting under circumstances favorable to deliberation, and to a judicious combination of all the reasons and inducements which were proper to govern their choice." Alexander Hamilton, [Federalist Paper 68](http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/fed68.asp)
1.1.1.2.2.2. Pro: In 48 states and Washington D.C. the state's electors are all assigned to the winner of the popular vote in the state and the electors are bound to vote for that candidate. In these states, this makes the electoral college precisely as likely to be swayed by popular opinion as would be direct election by popular vote.
1.1.1.2.2.2.1. Con: 48+1 \(states+DC\) are "winner-take-all" states, but [only 29+1 require their electors to vote for the popularly selected candidate](http://archive.fairvote.org/?page=967)
1.1.1.2.2.3. Con: The change from free electors in early America to electors bound to their states' results today does protect the country from sudden changes of public opinion between election day in November and the day the electoral college meets [in December](https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/electoral-college/roles.html).
1.1.1.2.2.3.1. Con: Just as a person cannot change their vote after they cast their ballot, sudden change in public opinion cannot change the result of an election already decided. The electoral college is no longer an independent and deliberative body.
1.1.1.2.2.4. Pro: The Founding Fathers designed the electoral college \(EC\) so that only quality people with political experience would have the final say in the presidential election. But the EC has since been changed and is now merely a proxy for the decision of the people.
1.1.1.2.3. Con: The electoral college system gives a third-party candidate more opportunities to create mischief than a direct election does. If a third-party nominee won enough states to prevent either major-party candidate from winning the 270 electoral votes needed for a majority, the House of Representatives would decide the outcome. Each state would have one vote. [That’s hardly a recipe for stability.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/five-myths-about-the-electoral-college/2012/11/02/2d45c526-1f85-11e2-afca-58c2f5789c5d_story.html?utm_term=.9cc18e490ec1)
1.1.1.2.4. Pro: [Federalist Paper 68](http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/fed68.asp) explains that Hamilton did not trust the public with choosing the president. Instead, the president would be chosen by “a small number of persons, selected by their fellow citizens from the general mass”, as they would be “most likely to possess the information and discernment requisite to such complicated investigations.”
1.1.1.2.4.1. Con: In practice the 'small number of persons' is tied either legally, politically, or customarily to voting with the popular vote of their electorate.  Hence it is irrelevant if the electors 'possess the information and discernment requisite to such complicated matters'.
1.1.1.2.4.2. Con: Federalist No. 68 was written in 1788. The nature of the political parties, the demographics of America and the nature of the office of President have changed. The American electoral system should be changed to reflect contemporary society.
1.1.1.2.4.2.1. Pro: The opinion of Hamilton, Jay, and Madison that the public could not be trusted to directly elect the president was based on the populace of America in the late 1700s. The assertion may no longer hold for the general population today.
1.1.1.2.4.2.1.1. Pro: The literacy rate was around [60%](https://www.quora.com/What-was-the-average-literacy-rate-in-the-13-Colonies-during-the-drafting-of-the-Declaration-of-Independence-1776) for white males in early colonial America, only rising to 90% in New England during the time of the Federalist Paper's publication. This number was significantly lower in the South \(Madison was from Virginia\).
1.1.1.2.4.3. Con: The Federalist papers [are not a part of our laws](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Federalist_Papers#Opposition_to_the_Bill_of_Rights), and are instead merely the opinions of Maddison, Jay, and Hamilton.
1.1.1.2.4.3.1. Pro: Chief Justice John Marshall, in the opinion for [M'CULLOCH v. STATE](http://caselaw.findlaw.com/us-supreme-court/17/316.html), says of the Federalist Papers that "No tribute can be paid to them which exceeds their merit; but in applying their opinions to the cases which may arise in the progress of our government, a right to judge of their correctness must be retained..."
1.1.1.2.4.3.2. Con: They are the opinions of three of the key founding fathers, two of which were very active participants in the Constitutional Convention. Therefore their opinions carry significant authority when it comes to interpreting the Constitution.
1.1.1.2.4.3.2.1. Con: The constitution is a living document, which was meant to be changed over time. Justifying the continued use of the electoral college should not be limited to the initial justification for the electoral college.
1.1.1.2.4.3.3. Con: The Federalist Papers have been cited many times by the Judicial Branch as indications of the intent of parts of the Constitution, showing that they have authority in such matters.
1.1.1.2.4.3.3.1. Pro: The Federalist is cited many times in the opinion for [HINES v. DAVIDOWITZ](http://caselaw.findlaw.com/us-supreme-court/312/52.html).
1.1.1.2.4.3.3.2. Pro: In the opinion of Justice Paterson \(1745-1806\) in [CALDER v. BULL](http://caselaw.findlaw.com/us-supreme-court/3/386.html) the author of the Federalist is cited as a source and praised "for his extensive and accurate knowledge of the true principles of Government."
1.1.1.2.4.3.3.3. Pro: The Federalist is used as support many times in [M'CULLOCH v. STATE](http://caselaw.findlaw.com/us-supreme-court/17/316.html).
1.1.1.2.4.4. Con: In the current system, the people do not “choose those they trust to be president.” Most do not know who their electors are. Electors are generally expected to ratify the popular vote of their state, rather than act as "free agents", as envisioned by Hamilton.
1.1.1.2.5. Con: Dealing with volatile public opinion is part of living in a democracy.
1.1.1.2.5.1. Con: Volatile swings in public opinion can lead to things like electing Hitler, workers electing Communist leaders who then wind up banning competing parties and killing intellectuals and business owners, or can lead to genocide when the majority decides some minority is unworthy. Pure democracy often results in tyranny by the majority, which is why multiple protections are put in place to protect political minorities.
1.1.1.2.5.2. Pro: Trying to protect elections from the uneducated and easily swayed masses is a rather arrogant way to guarantee "authenticity" of results.
1.1.1.2.6. Con: The electoral college creates incentives for politicians to attempt to sway public opinion. Some organizations [argue](http://www.nationalpopularvote.com/written-explanation) that "State winner-take-all statutes adversely affect governance. “Battleground” states receive 7% more federal grants than “spectator” states, twice as many presidential disaster declarations, more Superfund enforcement exemptions, and more No Child Left Behind law exemptions."
1.1.1.2.7. Pro: The electoral college was never intended to provide an exact equality of each individual vote \(majoritarianism\). Our government is purposely set up to be federalist. The reason for the electoral college is to provide input from both the states and the individuals in the election of their executive. It balances rapid swings in public opinion, and a less volatile input from state governments. If you think your state does their electoral votes poorly pressure the state to amend their rules.
1.1.1.2.8. Pro: Part of the appeal of the electoral college is that is helps to avoid the tyranny of the mob. If a particular political ideology becomes popular and sweeps a section of the country, it must meet a high benchmark in order to be able to get a president elected. The movement must appeal to a broad spectrum of the full nation's population. It must be mature enough and develop partnerships/coalitions with other related groups or it has no chance.
1.1.1.2.9. Con: Public opinion volatility is more likely to be violently manipulated in smaller samples \(swing states\) than larger ones \(nation at large\).
1.1.1.3. Pro: If all votes counted equally, all votes could be contested with impact. The Florida hanging chads would be hanging in all states, and the election results could be challenged in 50 states.
1.1.1.4. Pro: Most of those who vote are not qualified to even have a vote in the first place. They do not understand how their vote works or even how our government functions. There's good reason to keep the Electoral College, and even further, to discard the Popular Vote.
1.1.1.4.1. Pro: The popular vote is the problem. The Electoral College is the validation of the integrity of our system. The popular vote belongs only to the uneducated and unwise, and the Electorates, people who are actually qualified to have a view on it.
1.1.1.5. Con: It does not protect us from "tumult and disorder" since it merely is a system of rounding votes to the nearest whole state as used today. This idea was based on the idea that state legislatures would make better choices than everyday citizens since legislatures are better informed, so they should pick the electors.
1.1.1.6. Con: Today, the electoral college is effectively a proxy for the popular vote in each state, which eliminates any avoidance of disorder that the electoral college was originally supposed to provide.
1.1.1.7. Con: The electoral college victories under [Bush](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protests_against_George_W._Bush#First_inauguration) and [Trump](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protests_against_Donald_Trump#Inauguration_protests) have caused tumult and disorder.
1.1.1.7.1. Con: There was no civil strife, there was a court case under Bush that settled the matter. However you feel about the result, certainly the process was orderly.
1.1.1.7.1.1. Con: Civil strife refers to people's reaction to the results, not how orderly the process was.
1.1.1.7.1.2. Con: The sense of injustice and disempowerment felt by many who opposed Bush was one factor in the increasing polarisation of the nation. Bush's fragile majority in turn encouraged the Republican party to strengthen that polarisation to hold on to power; it was in the Bush Jr. era that bipartisan cooperation completely broke down. This traded long-term stability for short-term political gain.
1.1.1.7.1.2.1. Con: Modern polarization began to occur in the[1970s, and truly broke down](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/monkey-cage/wp/2014/02/13/polarization-in-congress-has-risen-sharply-where-is-it-going-next/?utm_term=.f8f71b5c25ed) during the impeachment of Bill Clinton. While Bush's election only made it worse, it's incorrect to say this is the root cause of our current level of polarization.
1.1.1.7.1.3. Con: There were significant protests at George W. Bush's Inauguration, and questions about his mandate to lead hung over him until the terrorist attacks of 9/11 required the nation to rally around his presidency.[web.archive.org](https://web.archive.org/web/20061206144300/http://archives.cnn.com/2001/ALLPOLITICS/stories/01/20/protest.wrap/index.html)
1.1.1.8. Pro: If the Presidency were determined by popular vote, in the event of a very close election a recount would be too enormous of an undertaking.
1.1.1.8.1. Con: Modern technology makes choosing the president directly more feasible and less likely to result in "tumult and disorder".
1.1.1.8.2. Con: The larger the vote pool, the less likely a recount is necessary. Abolishing the electoral college would result in fewer recounts
1.1.1.8.2.1. Con: Larger vote pools do not make close margins less likely. In fact, larger vote pools lead to lower variance in election margins, which would lead to more close election results assuming that the population is split roughly 50/50.
1.1.1.8.3. Pro: In the past 10 elections, half were within 5% margin in the popular vote.  There have been 6 elections in history that were within 1%, 2 were within 0.2% and 1 within 0.1%. Close elections are not uncommon and elections within the limits that would trigger an automatic recount are frequent enough that abolishing the college should not be taken lightly.
1.1.1.8.3.1. Con: The purpose of a voting system is to accurately evaluate the will of the people, not to avoid recounts. Avoiding recounts at the expensive of accuracy is a reversal of priorities.
1.1.1.8.4. Con: If counting the votes is possible to begin with, recounting them is also possible. The cost and effort of a recount is tiny compared to the huge costs of selecting the wrong president.
1.1.1.8.4.1. Pro: The methods of a ballot casting and tabulation wouldn't change. As they do now, municipalities would simply count and report the total number of votes. If a recount is required, it would work the same way it did in Florida in 2000, with each individual municipality recounting their portion, with election monitors on hand.
1.1.1.8.5. Pro: In the electoral college, there is no reason to recount in states where the margin of victory is statistically large. In a popular vote, recounting any state could affect the final total, so a close race could require a nationwide effort.
1.1.1.9. Pro: The electoral college enforces a readily measured majority-win voting scheme. In close elections \(including 2000 and 2016\), no candidate won a majority of the popular vote \(of votes cast or eligible voters\). The US Constitution clearly requires majority voting schemes to initiate action. Thus a popular election where a candidate only achieves a plurality would require a secondary mechanism, likely through the Congress. In 1992, such a path would likely have meant Bush Sr. would've been elected.
1.1.2. Con: The electoral college increases the ability of people to unfairly manipulate the election of the president.
1.1.2.1. Con: The intention of the electoral college was to provide obstacles to those wishing to unfairly influence the selection of a president.
1.1.2.1.1. Pro: "Nothing was more to be desired than that every practicable obstacle should be opposed to cabal, intrigue, and corruption." [Federalist Paper 68](http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/fed68.asp)
1.1.2.1.1.1. Con: This point is used to justify the dispersed nature of the electoral college by saying that a dispersed body would be more difficult to corrupt. However it presupposes that the members would exercise independent judgment in voting for president. As that is no longer the case the security question is largely moot.
1.1.2.1.2. Con: Intending to achieve some end is not the same as actually achieving it.  We often discard things which fail to achieve their intended aims, as we should with the electoral college.
1.1.2.2. Con: The electoral college makes widespread \(e.g. numerous-state\) voter fraud less impactful, thereby discouraging it.
1.1.2.2.1. Con: It makes voter fraud far more effective in swing states.
1.1.2.2.1.1. Pro: The importance the college places on swing states means voter fraud can be implemented more meaningfully at smaller scales in said states.
1.1.2.2.2. Pro: When the focus is on swing states, there are fewer states that are important or unpredictable \(as opposed to popular vote, where fraudulent votes in one state will "carry over" to other states\). Thus, election officials can focus on preventing fraud in those specific states as opposed to hard-red or hard-blue states, where the election officials [are also likely less bipartisan](http://www.heritage.org/election-integrity/report/destroying-the-electoral-college-the-anti-federalist-national-popular).
1.1.2.2.2.1. Con: New Hampshire [is considered a swing state](http://nhpr.org/post/how-nh-went-deep-red-swing-state-over-course-few-elections#stream/0), yet this did not stop there from being [fervent \(unproven\) accusations](http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/09/11/new-hampshire-voter-fraud-fight-takes-new-turn.html).
1.1.2.3. Pro: Since the electors are usually allocated under a winner-take-all system, potential meddlers only need to sway small numbers of votes in order to have a large impact.
1.1.2.3.1. Con: The same problem is present in a national popular vote election, which is still winner-take-all for the position of President.
1.1.2.4. Pro: Since there are only 538 electors as opposed to hundreds of millions of voters, it is far easier to influence the vote of the electors than it is to influence the vote of the populace.
1.1.2.4.1. Pro: Electors can be bribed or swayed, focusing power on a couple of individuals would not be a good idea due to human bias \(except you're dealing with people who elect your president thats going to be there for 2 years.\) A democracy is about what the people want for their federal districts.
1.1.2.4.2. Con: Public pressure would prevent any given elector from being bribed. If an elector votes for anyone other than they are pledged to vote for, the public will know it. If they were bribed to do so it would be very easy to track that bribe down.
1.1.2.4.2.1. Con: Faithless electors still happen. In fact, there were 7 in the last election [\[1\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Faithless_electors_in_the_United_States_presidential_election,_2016), and there have been others in past elections. Despite this, there was a lack of outrage, showing that public pressure is a non-issue. In fact, there was public pressure to be a faithless elector to vote for the popular vote instead [\[2\]](http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/310287-electoral-college-voters-under-intense-pressure). The pressure may be different after a bribe or if the outcome is swayed, but even if they were bribed the pressure is useless after the election has been determined.
1.1.2.4.2.1.1. Con: States already have the authority to remedy any problem posed by faithless electors through statute. About half of states already have laws involving pledges, penalties or other procedures to prevent faithless electors.
1.1.2.4.3. Con: As practiced today, electors are pledged to vote for a candidate based on the popular vote in their state. Who they are pledged to vote for is public record. They are not allowed to be influenced.
1.1.2.4.3.1. Pro: Despite loud and powerful demands that electors abandon Trump and alter the outcome of the election, electors were overwhelmingly faithful in 2016.
1.1.2.4.3.1.1. Con: The 2016 presidential race had a record number of elector defections. The number of defections was higher for Clinton than President Trump. [New York Times Source](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/12/19/us/elections/electoral-college-results.html)
1.1.2.4.3.2. Con: Electors are still able to default on their promise to represent, and they sometimes do.
1.1.2.4.3.2.1. Con: This rarely happens, and has never affected the outcome of a presidential race.
1.1.2.4.4. Pro: There have been recent demands for electors to switch their votes. Social media makes faithless electors a viable possibility in states, with only minor consequences.
1.1.2.4.4.1. Con: There has always been a potential for faithless electors, but they are incredibly rare and have never changed the outcome of a presidential election.  The vast, vast majority of the time they vote as their state voted.
1.1.2.4.4.2. Con: There can be real consequences for faithless electors. In some states they are bound by law and could be fined if they're faithless. In some cases their electoral vote is automatically void if they vote for someone other than the intended. Electors are almost always party loyalists in their home states. If they are faithless, they will lose all influence within their party.
1.1.2.4.5. Con: Influencing educated and politically literate individuals is far more difficult than you would think. On the other hand, take a look at the Republican primary. It is clear that platitudes and generalizations are all that is required to sway public opinion.
1.1.2.4.5.1. Con: Swaying populations, educated or not, with platitudes is not something limited to the GOP. The Democrats appear to depend on it greatly and use such when advancing themselves as the only defense against racial discrimination etc, and gender politics while actually doing nothing or incredibly small steps to address such when they are actually in power. This is because they and their allies have spent the last 30 years casting themselves as the only resolution.
1.1.2.4.5.2. Pro: Its easier to convince large groups of a population passively interested in politics than politicians who are also electors.
1.1.2.4.6. Con: It is far easier to subvert the popular vote than it is to that of the electoral college. The electoral college has transparencies that voting stations do not.
1.1.2.4.6.1. Pro: It is public record who each elector votes for.
1.1.2.5. Pro: The electoral college exacerbates the effects of voter suppression because no matter how many or few vote in the state, the elective power of the state is the same.
1.1.2.5.1. Con: Voter suppression is usually targeted at people from the other party, so it is equally effective whether in an electoral college or popular vote system.
1.1.2.5.1.1. Pro: The electoral college does not penalize voter suppression through reduction of a state's voting power, and effectively amplifies its effects. The popular vote does not directly penalize voter suppression, nor does it amplify its effects.
1.1.2.5.2. Pro: It would be easy for the house to Gerrymander, securing their party even more. This could become a problem, and on party could hold the house for a long time.
1.1.2.5.3. Pro: The electoral college gave an advantage to slave holding states because the number of electors was based on population, in which slave states counted every 5 slaves as 2 people, rather than popular vote which counted only voting citizens.
1.1.2.5.3.1. Con: Contrary to modern opinion the 2/5 count for each slave was a compromise to reduce the power of the slave states who fought for full representation for slaves. By counting slaves as 2/5, the population census for slave states was reduced and so was the number of their representatives in Congress. Without compromise there would have been no United States of America and no voices to free the slaves. The electoral college was not an advantage to slave states, but lead to the freeing of all slaves.
1.1.2.5.3.2. Con: Arguing a historical circumstance and impact doesn't hold any weight in a modern setting where the circumstances are completely different and the argued impact is void. All citizens are now able to vote. The 2/5 compromise has no significance today.
1.1.2.5.4. Con: The Constitution \([14th amendment, 2nd section](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fourteenth_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution)\) allows the representation of states to be reduced where citizens are denied their right to vote. All it needs is for that part of the Constitution to be enforced.
1.1.2.5.4.1. Pro: It is never enforced because data on voter suppression is insufficient to apply that clause.
1.1.2.5.5. Pro: If only one person were allowed to vote in California their one vote would still choose 55 out of 535 electors, thus giving that one voter over 10% of the total electing power, even though the voting rights of the rest of the state had been abolished.
1.1.2.6. Pro: The electoral college does not prevent people who are influential in society, because of their wealth or control of media, from manipulating elections.
1.1.2.6.1. Con: The popular vote does not prevent this sort of influence either.
1.1.2.6.2. Pro: With modern technology, billionaires like Robert Mercer can [exert extreme influence on the election](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/06/us/politics/cambridge-analytica.html?mcubz=0) regardless of how votes are distributed in the electoral college.
1.1.2.6.2.1. Con: With modern technology, teenagers with a computer and access to the internet can exert that same type of influence.
1.1.3. Pro: Because the structure of the electoral college is so decentralized, it virtually eliminates the possibility that our elections can be manipulated at the ballot box.
1.1.4. Con: Electoral voters can and probably have been swayed to vote for whomever they want. In order for a Electoral vote to work correctly there needs to be a law in every state making it mandatory for the Electoral voter to vote for the winner of the Popular vote. If we don't do this, the only opinion/vote that matters is the biased vote of the Electoral voter.
1.1.5. Pro: The EC makes it very difficult to steal elections. Illegal ballots must be cast in the right States and even precincts in order to impact the outcome of the election. With popular vote, any illegal vote cast at any location directly effects the outcome of the presidential election, making it much harder to maintain the integrity of elections.
1.2. Con: It isn't practical to abolish the electoral college.
1.2.1. Pro: Abolishing the electoral college would require the very states whose influence would be reduced to ratify a Constitutional amendment to make the change.
1.2.2. Pro: The electoral college is defined in the Constitution. As such, it would require a Constitutional Amendment be passed by a super-majority of the Congress, two-thirds voting in favor, and three-fourths of the states voting to ratify the amendment. Only widely popular amendments are ratified.
1.2.2.1. Con: Changing the Constitution is not the only way to functionally remove the electoral college. If a group of states holding a majority of the electoral vote decided that their votes automatically went to the popular vote winner, the electoral college would functionally be defunct as the popular vote would then decide the election. As of now, there is a movement called the [National Popular Vote Interstate Compact](https://www.nationalpopularvote.com) that does exactly this. States holding over 30% have already agreed to this plan.
1.2.3. Con: The practicality of moving to a true popular vote, outweighs the difficulty of changing the nature or eliminating the electoral college.
1.2.3.1. Con: "Practicality" is a nebulous term that holds different definitions in different people's eyes. Therefore, it is not a good enough reason to justify giving high-population areas more power over low-population areas.
1.2.3.2. Con: I couldn't disagree more. Are you saying that we don't have the ability to count the votes? Why not? We count everything else in our lives, don't we?
1.2.4. Pro: It is also important to remember that voting is supposed to be controlled by the local governments not the federal government.  The requirements of age of the voter and whether to restore rights at the end of prison sentence are issues to be decided by the states, not dictated by the federal government.
1.2.5. Con: Since the Bill of Rights, the Constitution has been Amended more times to correct for election flaws than for any other reason.  
12 - President/VP election mechanic
15 - Right to vote
17 - Senate direct elections
19 - Right to vote
20 - Date of terms relative to election
22 - Term limits
23 - DC EC
24 - Right to vote
25 - Presidential succession
26 - Right to vote
27 - Elected official pay relative to election cycle.

11/17 amendments centered on election based flaws.
1.2.5.1. Con: The original purpose of the senate was to allow state legislatures to be represented in the federal government. We already have a body that's elected by the popular vote, the house of representatives. That's the entire reason two chambers were created, one for state representation and one for direct representation. Among other things, it also ensured that people would be more active in state government. It was a states rights idea, not an election flaw.
1.2.6. Con: Actually, it would be quite easy to nullify the EC with the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact. Under this compact, states are already signing on to make their own popular vote be the official one. Once enough states have signed on to guarantee at least 270 electors will follow the popular vote in their states, then by default the popular vote will supplant the EC organically, without changing the constitution. For more see: [National Popular Vote Interstate Compact](http://www.nationalpopularvote.com)
1.2.6.1. Con: Less populous states are not motivated to participate in a National Popular Vote Interstate Compact. The point of the EC is to protect their influence over the executive branch.
1.2.6.1.1. Con: If the compact were changed so that it only counted the states in the compact, then once it got 270, all states would be practically forced to join before the next election. More here: [www.rangevoting.org](http://www.rangevoting.org/NPVtrainwreck.html) \(see the bottom of the article\)
1.2.6.1.2. Con: The claim that "small states won't join" is unfounded, because Rhode Island, Hawaii, and Vermont already have.
1.2.6.1.3. Con: Party control of states change often. It's plausible.
1.2.6.2. Con: An Intersate Compact requires the assent of Congress \([www.law.cornell.edu](https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/articlei), Art I, Sec 10, Para 3: "No state shall, without the consent of Congress...enter into any agreement or compact with another state" This would require the approval of either 51 or 60 Senators depending on use of filibuster, and those Senators woud be voting to reduce the influence of their states.
1.3. Pro: The complexity of electoral college process may discourage some people from voting in the elections.
1.3.1. Con: The inability to understand the system is a good indication of a person who should either learn more or refrain from participation in the process.
1.4. Pro: The all or nothing nature of the electoral college deters citizens from participating in the political process, because it leads to situations where one different vote won't change the outcome on state level, thus rendering the votes of people outside swing States essentially meaningless.
1.4.1. Con: Every vote counts because it’s added to the collective votes. The electoral college is mispresented above in the background premise. It’s purpose is to allow middle states fair representation versus east/west coast populations. City dwellers versus rural dwellers an equal voice.
1.4.2. Con: There is not an inherent all or nothing nature to the electoral college, Nebraska and Maine are examples, State legislation not the electoral college decides how to use a states allocated electoral votes. The electoral college itself is merely a cap on the influence any one state might have in an election through its populous.
1.4.2.1. Con: Every state already has a cap on the influence it might have in an election. Namely, it's total number of eligible voters. A further cap is not needed.
1.4.3. Con: If that is completely an issue against the EC then we would also need to do away with a lot of state non-presidential elections, since they can also be viewed as "all or nothing" depending upon the proportions of people in one party. Consider state elections in California \(Dem\) or Texas \(Rep\).
1.5. Pro: The electoral college no longer works as it was intended by the founding fathers. The fact that it no longer serves this purpose suggests that it is no longer necessary.
1.5.1. Con: Even if the electoral college no longer accomplishes its initial purpose, it might still serve other valuable purposes.
1.5.2. Con: The electoral college works as it was intended by the Founding Fathers, our interpretation of the electoral college is what has changed. The U.S. is a constitutional republic made up of 50 individual states; the General Election for President is not a single election but 50 separate elections that must be won. If anything, the individual states should be forced to adopt a similar system to allow for equal representation among their residents instead of the current winner take all models.
1.5.3. Pro: When the Electoral College was created, the ratio of populations of the most populous state \(New York\) and the least populous state \(Rhode Island\) was 4 to 1. If we assume that the authors of the Constitution struck the right balance between the Senate and the House under these conditions, how can we claim that that balance is still correct when the ratio is now 80 \(California\) to 1 \(Wyoming\)? The apportionment of ECs is derived from the number of Senators and Congressmen and is therefore wrong.
1.5.4. Pro: The Founders established the electoral college process to prevent a charismatic tyrant from fooling the public and attracting a majority of the popular vote. We know how that worked out.
1.5.5. Con: The initial statement: that the electoral college is not performing as designed is inaccurate.  It worked perfectly.  It prevents a small highly-populated area having more control than the rest of the country.  It was designed to keep the tyranny of the many from running rough-shod over the few.  Should there be changes - that is a state's right issue.  It is up to the states to decide if it is a winner-take-all or proportional division of the votes.
1.5.5.1. Con: That was not the reasoning for the creation of the electoral college. In the 18th century, when people could not communicate as easily as now people voted on a representative that would have their interests at heart and vote for them in the presidential election.
1.5.5.2. Con: People's place of birth should not give them more or less voting power.
1.5.6. Pro: The electoral college is an anachronism. It was created as a comprise to get small states to ratify the constitution and the founders themselves did not believe it would operate because there were no political parties at that time. Without parties, it was believed each state would nominate their own "favorite son" leading to throwing elections to the House and Senate.
1.5.7. Pro: The EC HAD been set up so that all states could have a say even when many residents couldn't get to a place to vote, but these days, essentially everyone can, with mail votes and the internet. Now, no one has to walk for many hours or days to get to a town to vote. With computers so powerful these days, the question of voter tampering has been raised. Has another country broken into our computers and fouled the votes? That would be hard with a popular vote, as there would be many more to change.
1.5.8. Pro: Though not its stated purpose, the electoral college was created because the founders were afraid that the ignorant masses would be unable to make an intelligent choice. In the information age, this is no longer a valid reason. Well, at least until the last election. Maybe the founders had a point.
1.5.9. Con: The Electoral College performs as the founders expected, stopping"factions". It is the difference between a messy democracy, and a Democratic Republic. Look to California, New York or Chicago to see the dangers of "one man, one vote". Jefferson saw factions as any group which by social status, wealth, power or fraud take over the government to the detriment of the people. \(Political parties would be factions.\) The Electoral College's value is borne out by the Bush/Dole & Trump/Clinton elections.
1.5.10. Con: The Electoral College reflects the Founders intention that the States have primacy over the Federal Government. We elect Presidents by State by State, not individually.
1.5.11. Pro: A main problem solved at the Constitutional Convention was inducing slave states, wary of domination by Abolitionist-oriented, higher- \(white\) population states, to ratify. [The 2nd Amendment](http://www.carltbogus.com/edmund-a-blog/72-the-hidden-history-of-the-second-amendment-redux), [3/5 Compromise](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-Fifths_Compromise), [and the EC](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/electoral-college-slavery-constitution) were all solutions that gave lower-populated slave states more power than their \(white\) populations merited. Retaining solutions to a non-existent problem now empowers a minority to abuse the majority through unmerited, unfair, power over the Executive Branch and US Senate.
1.5.12. Pro: The electoral college does not work as it was intended, because of the amendment that restricts the House of Representatives to 435 seats. The whole game theory of the government was designed for a by-gone era of technology and sophistication, anyway.
1.5.13. Pro: The Electoral College was created to ensure the wealthy, land owning class maintained their political domination because at the time they were largely the only educated group. Now, education is more widely available as is information. This gives all citizens access to what the founders wanted: an informed electorate. The Electoral College perpuates the two party system which reduces the incentive to become informed.
1.5.14. Pro: The original purpose of the EC was so, if the majority elected an unfit demagogue, electors would be able to instead choose a qualified candidate. In the 2016 election, the exact opposite happened - the majority favored Hillary Clinton, but the EC installed Donald Trump. So the EC had the opposite effect of its original purpose.
1.5.15. Con: Not all of the original intent has been altered. State representation in the college equal to the state's representation in Congress is unchanged since the founders' day.
1.5.15.1. Con: The functional intent of a thing is not summed up by the extent of a single part. A bicycle with one spinning wheel is not functioning as intended, despite the fact that the good wheel is.
1.5.16. Pro: Supporters argue that the electoral college format prevents candidates from targeting specific groups and regions, instead forcing them to seek votes across the country. [But that’s not the way it has worked in recent presidential contests.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/five-myths-about-the-electoral-college/2012/11/02/2d45c526-1f85-11e2-afca-58c2f5789c5d_story.html?utm_term=.9cc18e490ec1)
1.5.16.1. Con: This is a result of states selecting a "winner take all" format and not the electoral college itself.
1.5.17. Pro: [Several states](https://tropicsofmeta.wordpress.com/2013/09/16/how-do-different-states-allocate-their-electoral-votes/) require by law, or by ejection from the electoral college and replacement, that their electors vote according to the state popular vote. This undermines the independence the founding fathers intended the electoral college to have.
1.5.18. Pro: The actual purpose of the EC was to prevent a demagogue partnered/traitor with a foreign power \(ex., GB, France, Spain\).
1.5.19. Pro: The original purpose of the electoral college was to prevent an uninformed populace from making an uninformed decision.
1.5.19.1. Pro: Part of the original intent of the E.C. was to override the will of the people if the people choose a clearly unqualified candidate. In 2016, not only did this not work, it did the exact opposite: It overrode the will of the people to elect a clearly unqualified candidate.
1.5.19.1.1. Pro: The end product of the 2016 EC was to seat a president whom many feel is objectively unqualified.
1.5.19.1.1.1. Pro: [In a letter to The NY Times](https://mobile.nytimes.com/2017/11/30/opinion/psychiatrists-trump.html?referer=https://www.google.com/) these mental health professionals observe serious questions about the President’s fitness to serve.
1.5.19.1.1.1.1. Con: [The Goldwater rule](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goldwater_rule) states that the above cited professionals are violating ethical standards.
1.5.19.1.1.2. Con: Of those who voted, more than half deemed him qualified.
1.5.19.1.1.2.1. Con: The average voter is not equipped to assess his mental health.
1.5.19.1.1.2.2. Con: As a candidate, Trump did [nothing](https://www.washingtonpost.com/amphtml/news/the-fix/wp/2016/08/27/the-strange-tale-of-donald-trumps-doctor-letter-just-got-stranger/) to reassure the public of his mental or neurological well being.
1.5.19.2. Pro: One purpose of the electoral college as outlined by A. Hamilton in [The Federalist No. 68](http://www.constitution.org/fed/federa68.htm) was to ensure that those voting for the office of President were "\[...\] men most capable of analyzing the qualities adapted to the station, and acting under circumstances favorable to deliberation". Hamilton refers to these electors as "agents", and uses other such language to indicate that they are meant to decide their own votes. This design is in direct contention with the way electors currently vote.
1.5.19.3. Pro: The EC was established prior to the advent of mass media. Nowadays, this argument is obsolete. Nowadays the populace has access to plenty of information through mass media and is incredibly informed relative to back then.
1.5.19.3.1. Con: Poorly-informed "low information voters" were a critical factor in the 2016 US Presidential election cycle.
1.5.19.3.2. Pro: The electoral college was created in part due to transportation and communications limitations. Instant communication technology makes this reason for the electoral collage obsolete.
1.5.19.3.3. Con: Mass media manipulates voters rather than informing them.
1.5.19.4. Pro: The founding fathers did not trust the common people to vote correctly, and instituted the electoral college as a firewall of sorts to control the vote.  This goes against where we are as a nation, where we've allowed people of all stripes to vote.  There should be no conduit, we should allow the will of the people to determine the presidency, not a political system designed in the late 18th century.
1.5.19.4.1. Con: The Founding Fathers instituted the electoral college because they feared a "tyranny of the majority" - essentially mob rule. This danger has not disappeared just because we've allowed more kinds of people to vote. If anything, since more people are allowed to vote the potential danger is even greater than it once was. \(If it's not clear why, consider which is more dangerous: 10 people with pitchforks and torches, or 10,000\)
1.5.19.4.2. Con: The fact that the political system was designed in the 18th century is irrelevant because it has been modified numerous times since its original inception via constitutional amendments. In addition, the age of a political system does not change how it functions.
1.5.19.4.3. Con: Our system is a representative republic. Virtually nothing was to be left to individual voters.
This was to avoid mob rule. This is why we have senators and "representatives". Because we vote for those who we think will make the best decisions.
To say this is not who we are as a country is false.
1.5.19.5. Con: When Hamilton wrote the Federalist Papers, the average American had limited access to information, and not all citizens had the same access to presidential candidates. With the Internet and other media technologies, almost all Americans can learn anything they want to know about each candidate. This access makes these citizens capable of understanding the candidates and deliberating between them. Voters in each state then choose electors, who select the voters' preferred candidate.
1.5.20. Pro: The electoral college is an outdated process. When it was created, it was meant to save time due to the slow means of communication. Modern society is capable of processes that fit better with the speed and other capabilities of modern technologies. For instance, platforms like "kialo"are a much more effective and constructive means for anybody to participate in a democratic process, and thus creating the capacity for all votes to count equally.
1.5.21. Pro: A key reason for the electoral college was the fear that each state would vote for a local favorite and no national figure would emerge.  This was shown to be false in the first competitive election.  The electoral college has been outdated from its creation.
1.5.22. Pro: The EC today does not resemble the EC the founding fathers designed. At the end of the 18th century the House of Representatives was still directly proportional to population \(not capped at 435, giving sparsely populated states higher proportional representation\) and electoral votes were not awarded on a winner-take-all basis. Small states having more power is a side effect of many different things that have happened during the past 250 years, not a design of the EC.
1.5.22.1. Pro: When the House's size was fixed in 1929 it placed an upper limit on the number of house seats a state may have, and thus a limit on its electors. This unfairly penalizes predominantly urban states.
1.5.22.1.1. Con: Actually, that’s not a correct interpretation of the act. Though the size of the house is fixed, the number of congressmen each state is allocated is not and is still based on population. We have seen a number of times where states have gained or lost representatives based on population shifts. After the 2010 census, 10 states lost seats and 8 seats gained seats.
1.5.23. Con: The electoral college is part of the Constitution and serves as a historical monument from our country's founding, which is a legitimate reason to keep it.
1.5.23.1. Con: The Constitution isn’t a monument, it is a document that sets requirements for how our government functions. Leaving the Electoral College in place, as the law of the land, for historical purposes isn’t necessary. An amendment to abolish the EC would not delete any original text, it would be an addition, the same way the amendments that created prohibition and revoked prohibition are both still in the text of the Constitution, and made no changes to the the 1787 original text.
1.5.23.2. Con: The argument that the EC is somehow sacred because the Founders thought it up, so its untouchable, is absurd, ahistorical, and offensive. The Founders also thought up writing slavery into the Consititution. People figured out that, and other, concepts were flawed and amended it.
1.5.23.3. Con: The constitution is a practical document which allows for amendments when society finds consensus for change. For example the constitution was changed to mandate direct election of senators.
1.5.23.3.1. Con: The Constitution should also be respected as borderline holy.  It should not be so easily compromised.  It serves to codify certain foundational principles defining this land and should not be rewritten so nonchalantly simply because a few people are dissatisfied with it. Especially since few even bother to understand its bases or are motivated by election results not favorable to them.
1.5.23.3.1.1. Con: The fact that the constitutional amendment process is so difficult means that any amendment abolishing the electoral college will be made after extensive debate and consideration.
1.5.23.3.2. Con: The key word here is "consensus". In this current political climate of bipolar opposition in US government such consensus does not exist and likely never will - "bipartisan" moves are rare and demand a level of effort that such non-pressing reform \(that is lacking popular consensus, mind you\) cannot inspire.
1.5.23.4. Pro: The constitution should seldom be considered a vessel for change, where the proposed changes need to be tested out over many years in other areas before solidified in the consitution to avoid reactionary movements
1.5.23.4.1. Con: Amending the Constitution is an extremely difficult [process](https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/constitution) for this reason. First, an amendment must be proposed by a two-thirds majority vote in both houses of Congress or by two-thirds of State legislatures calling for a constitutional convention. After that, three-fourths, or 38 of 50, states must ratify the proposed amendment.
1.5.23.4.2. Pro: Electoral college reform can be tried out with the national popular vote interstate compact. If enough states feel it is not working as intended it would only require withdrawal of a few to revert.
1.5.24. Con: The electoral college to this day works exactly as the framers of the Constitution wanted. As evidenced by the most recent electoral map, the EC prevents the election of a candidate with little national appeal. If you could win the presidency by winning southern California then you could ignore the needs of the rest of the counry and remain in power. The prospect of being ruled by S. Cali does not appeal to this Ohioan.
1.6. Con: The electoral college empowers states as political units, which supports the system of federalism that is important to US governance.
1.6.1. Con: The federal aspect of the United States is now much weaker than it was in the 19th century. As a result, it does not matter that states serve as political units for the presidency because the presidency is now much more impactful than it used to be and holds far more power than the states do.
1.6.1.1. Con: The weakening of the federal nature of the US gives more reason to preserve what remains.
1.6.2. Pro: What seems lost in this discussion is that the United States of America was founded as a Federation of Independent States coming together as a Constitutional Republic.  The Constitution has been amended or interpreted to such a state that the vision of the founding fathers has been dimmed to be nearly extinguished.  To abolish the Electoral College would surely put the Constitution's lights out.  What would these 330 million people do now for governance?
1.6.3. Pro: A direct abolition of the EC would make it extremely difficult to have alternative voting systems \(more here: [www.kialo.com](https://www.kialo.com/the-us-should-adopt-a-better-voting-system-for-single-winner-elections-4650/4650.0) \). However, the NPV state compact, if worded appropriately, CAN allow for states to experiment with alternate voting systems.
1.6.4. Pro: The EC is a critical structure that helps prevent the Executive mob rule issues associated with a Democracy. This is particularly important now that the Senate is no longer significantly different than the House. The fact that the EC did NOT agree with the majority vote is evidence that the emergency check was activated. Simply look at the red/blue district map from 2016 to see the problem. Regions critical to the national well being are often sparsely populated, protection is needed.
1.6.5. Con: States are already represented as political units through their allocation of senators and representatives.
1.6.5.1. Con: Unequal representation finds no defense in the fact that artificial entities called 'states' are put on equal footing though of different sizes. States do not have rights as they are coneptual entities, not people with moral agency or natural rights. Speech of states' rights runs through the federalist principles; checks and balances of the part upon the whole, multitiered organization, marketplace or laboratory of democracy. None of this either requires or justifies unequal voting weights.
1.6.5.2. Con: Our constitution put in place checks and balances in all three branches to prevent the over-powered control of one branch. State representatives are for the legislative branch; the electoral college is for the executive branch.
1.6.6. Con: In highlighting states as political actors, the electoral college violates the individual's status as a political unit by invalidating their vote if they voted for someone other than the person their elector votes for.
1.6.6.1. Con: Everyone's vote counts, but there is just an additional step in the voting.
1.6.6.2. Con: The concern here largely stems from how most states choose to allocate their electoral votes \(winner-takes-all\), not in the electoral college process itself.
1.6.6.3. Con: That is no more true than suggesting that those who voted for a state governor or senator have their votes invalidated should their candidate lose.
1.6.7. Con: The electoral college does not guarantee that a state's voting power is protected. It is conceivable that a President would only need the 11 most populous states in the union to secure the presidency.
1.6.7.1. Con: The least universal scenario for the electoral college \(11 states electing the president\) is better than the least universal scenario for a direct popular vote, which would only require the [9 most populated](http://www.businessinsider.com/half-of-the-us-population-lives-in-just-9-states-2016-6) states to elect the president.  The worst case scenario for a popular vote only gets worse when you go by county, in which a tiny percentage of highly populated  counties in order to win.
1.6.8. Con: The EC does not emphasize states over other entities as political units but rather emphasizes certain types of states over others.
1.6.9. Pro: The electoral college reflects the unique federal aspect of the American republic. States, operating as miniature sovereign republics, \(used to\) exist as counterweights to the national government, to prevent the nationwide consolidation of factional power.
1.6.9.1. Pro: This function of the EC helps preserve liberty, the chief goal of republican institutions.
1.6.9.2. Pro: Abolishing the electoral system implies that states have no sovereignty in the face of the federal government and empowers the federal government to the detriment of local and state government representation.
1.6.9.2.1. Pro: In the wake of the [incorporation doctrine](https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/incorporation_doctrine), the[sixteenth amendment](https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/amendmentxvi), the [seventeenth amendment](https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/amendmentxvii), the changed [judicial interprepations of the general welfare clause since 1936](https://www.law.cornell.edu/supremecourt/text/297/1), and the changed[judicial interpretations of the commerce clause since 1937](https://www.law.cornell.edu/supremecourt/text/301/1), the capacity of states to act as responsible sovereign entities has been eroded tremendously. The last remaining place where states are able to exert sovereignty, is through the back door of the electoral college.
1.6.9.2.1.1. Con: The Constitution defines the role and function of the Federal Government and was approved by all states upon adoption and any new states upon inclusion in the nation. It is not a "back door."
1.6.10. Pro: As a Union - a [federal republic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federal_republic), it is only natural for the USA to act like one. Republican forms of government do not necessarily emphasize the rule of the majority - that is for full democracies to uphold. Given all that - the electoral college is a meaningful and natural institution in a country that is first and foremost a federation - a union that needs to respect the voice of all of its elements \("states"\).
1.6.10.1. Pro: The Federalism argument is important. The Constitution currently puts the onus for electing Federal officials at the state level. If the electoral college was dumped and direct presidential elections instituted, it would require elections at the Federal level, something that has never existed in the U.S. \(to date\). And that opens a whole new can of worms about Federal authority and power, as it takes significant authority from the states, and potentially with that certain checks and balances.
1.7. Pro: The electoral college system results in unfair outcomes for voters.
1.7.1. Pro: Because less than 600 appointees decide the presidency despite how the majority of the people in the US vote and essentially nullifies every persons vote other than those of the appointees this creates apathy that harms society.
1.7.1.1. Con: The electoral college voters do NOT nullify every other person's votes.  The votes of each person in a state decide which set of electors will be used and, in virtually every case, those electors will vote for the candidate nominated by the party that won the majority of the popular vote in that state.   No presidential election outcome in US history has been changed by faithless electors.
1.7.1.2. Pro: Depending on the electoral college to determine the final outcome causes many to lose faith in the voting system. An electoral win with a popular vote loss, makes some feel like their vote doesn't matter. In local elections where a candidate can literally win by 1 vote shows the importance of and truth that every vote does counts. It discourages people from staying home and could give extra motivation to get to the polls if people felt their vote could win the election.
1.7.2. Con: "Unfair" is a subjective term and the term "fair" can have many equally valid definitions when applied to elections. Whether or not the electoral college results are "fair" depends entirely upon one's definition of the term.
1.7.3. Pro: Either the electoral college produces the same outcome as the popular vote, or it produces a different outcome. In case it produces the same outcome, it cannot be said to be superior to the popular vote. In cases where it produces a different outcome, it must be said to be inferior to the popular vote, because the difference can only be attributed to arbitrary geographical factors, not to the issues relevant to most voters.
1.7.4. Pro: The electoral college is fundamentally undemocratic.  Because electoral votes are tallied by Congresspersons + Senators, all states get at least 3 and states such as Wyoming and North Dakota \(population 563,000 and 672,000, respectively\), get the same 2 Senators as California \(37.2 Million, and New York 19.4 Mil. respectively\). So, electoral votes per population are 1 per 678,000 and 1 per 669,000 in Ca. and NY, while 1 per 187,00 and 1 per 224,000 in Wyoming and N. Dakota, respectively.
1.7.4.1. Con: In a sense you are correct. The electoral college was created to stop mob rule. While the House of Representatives by its nature limits representation among the most populous states, such is not true in Congress. This is part of the failsafe our founding fathers created. One side of the Legislative branch is restricted in representation for the express purpose of making it difficult for a majority in a certain area to determine law for other areas. It forces compromise instead of mob rule.
1.7.4.1.1. Pro: So the suggestion here, is that state and local voting is, in fact, a counterweight to the electoral college. While an electoral college impacts the presidential vote, and thus preventing mob rule, the balance of power is established by allowing raw majority vote for members of congress, whom are separate from the executive branch.
1.7.4.2. Con: The reality is that some regions of this country are over-represented in their importance to the nation. For example, the massive population center in the tri-state area around NYC is not as vital or productive on a person by person basis as say Indiana. If we isolated these regions, the tri-state area would implode in weeks, Indiana would not. NYC can not self-sustain. There needs to be a regional balancing of power to preserve the union which IS actually in the best interests of the mob.
1.7.5. Con: Democracies fail because of Tyranny of the Majority \(TofTM\). The Electoral College, divided sovereignty \(Preamble, Federalist #51, 9, 10, 17, 45, Amendments 9 & 10\(14 delayed in Madison's time\)\), and State legislature election of Senators are protections from TofTM.

The 17th Amendment and Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1956 removing Divided Sovereignty and "post Roads" restriction created a "needful" majority. 

Removing the Electoral College increase TofTM.
1.7.5.1. Pro: The vile aspect of democracy, Tyranny of the Majority, needs restraints, such as the Electoral College.  Tyranny of the Majority can be measured by our voting for $21 trillion more in Federal benefits than we paid in taxes. Debt is the tax on the future labor of children, a defenseless minority.  [Tyranny of the Majority](https://www.jpods.com/tyrannyoftheMajority)
1.7.6. Pro: The electoral college discourages democracy. Red voters in blue states and blue voters in red states often feel that they need not vote since their vote "doesn't matter." Conversely, red voters in red states and blue voters in blue states may also decide that they need not vote, as their preferred party is a "sure win." Moving to the popular vote would encourage democracy, as every vote would "matter" equally.
1.7.7. Pro: The electoral college alienates minority voters in 'safe' states. These votes could be meaningful an impactful in a system where voters vote directly for president.
1.7.8. Pro: Abolishing the electoral college allows full representation of all U.S. citizens to be heard rather than the majority. It gives the people who have less of a say in government to have their opinion heard in elections instead of a select majority being chosen to represent what the people want. Because of this, it would give an accurate representation of what the people want.
1.7.9. Pro: The electoral college is not a form of democracy, as electors in many states can vote differently than the result of the election. This means one person's vote can not only be less valuable \(i.e. depending on where you live your vote is worth less then or more than one vote thanks to the electoral college\) but can also be given to a party opposite the one that the person voted for.
1.7.9.1. Con: Faithless electors are tremendously rare, and have never altered the outcome of a Presidential election.
1.7.9.2. Con: Electing representatives that in turn elect office-holders is a form of democracy. This is how US Senators were elected for the country's first century, and how political parties use delegates to decide who becomes their Presidential nominee today.
1.7.9.3. Con: Strictly speaking, a democracy is a government where national decisions are made by votes cast in town hall meetings, as in Athens. By this standard, there is no democratic nation-state in the world today because every supposedly democratic nation makes decisions via representatives rather than via popular vote.
1.7.9.4. Con: Faithless electors do not nullify or alter any individual's vote.
1.7.10. Pro: The electoral college places voting power in land rather than in individuals; it is a relic of the injustices in the US when power was directly related to land ownership.
1.7.11. Pro: Many states use a winner-takes-all system where a candidate could get 51% of the vote, but all of the electoral college vote.
1.7.11.1. Con: -> See 1.6.6.2.
1.7.11.2. Pro: The electoral college nullifies the votes of individuals that disagree with the majority of their state.  Take the 2016 election, for example.  Clinton received 60% of the popular vote in New York but won all 29 electoral votes.  She got 100% of the electoral votes with only 60% of the popular vote.  That's 12 unearned electoral votes from NY which is enough to negate the electoral votes from several smaller states, not to mention the 40% of NYers whose vote was rendered irrelevant.
1.7.11.2.1. Con: -> See 1.6.6.2.
1.7.11.2.2. Con: In any election to a single seat, all the votes for anyone besides the winner are rendered irrelevant. That some votes are rendered irrelevant does not draw a distinction between the electoral college and any other election system.
1.7.11.3. Con: The winner-take-all system can be altered \(and, in two states, has\) without abolishing the electoral college.
1.7.11.3.1. Con: While true, the states have little incentive to do away with winner take all as it generally tends to maximize their constituents influence. Doing away with the college would open up ability to adopt a popular vote that would eliminate that temptation.
1.7.11.3.1.1. Pro: A small shift in support for a candidate in a swing state can result in a massive swing in electoral votes in winner take all systems. As such candidates are more likely to address issues specific to that states constituents possibly even at the expense of other states in order to shift the the plurality in their favor. Such favoritism is less likely in a distributive state as the shift in support will only proportionally shift electoral votes. States wish to maximize influence.
1.7.11.3.2. Con: The two states not using winner take all use winner by congressional district which makes the election of electors very vulnerable to Gerrymandering. An issue avoided by a nation wide popular vote.
1.7.11.4. Pro: In those states \(under [FPTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-past-the-post_voting) with at least one third party candidate\) a candidate could even win with less than 50% of the vote.
1.7.11.5. Pro: The EC creates tons of wasted votes. Putting aside Nebraska and Maine who distribute their electoral votes proportionally, everyone else is winner take all — not ranked choice, not proportional, undemocratic. For the 40ish states where the outcome is inevitable by 5 or 10+ points this  means that every single vote for the losing candidate is worthless — the same as if those people never voted at all — and every vote over the majority for the winning candidate is unnecessary and thus wasted.
1.7.11.5.1. Con: -> See 1.6.6.2.
1.7.11.6. Pro: States do not have uniform density, so in many cases, the densely populated urban areas still can control all the electoral votes for a certain state. For example, conservative voters in sparsely populated rural California counties rarely “get a say” in presidential elections because a majority of the population is located in the more liberal, urban areas.
1.7.11.6.1. Con: That's only because CA chooses to allocate their electoral votes in a winner-take-all manner \(as do most states\).  That is not an issue with the the electoral college itself.
1.7.12. Con: Greater than proportional representation for small states seeks fairness in a way the popular vote does not.
1.7.12.1. Con: "Greater than proportional representation" is unfair representation.
1.7.12.1.1. Pro: The calculations of votes in the electoral college provide excessive power to less populous states, tipping the balance of power unfairly. This is because electoral votes are not purely calculated proportional to state populations. Every state receive 2 electoral votes in addition to their proportional votes regardless of population. For instance the population of northwest states WY, MT, SD, ND, AK, ID combined is 5.7 million with 19 EC votes, compare to MD's 6 million people with 10 EC votes.
1.7.12.2. Pro: The electoral college works to reduce the influence of densely populated areas and give fair power to smaller states.
1.7.12.2.1. Con: A common argument for the EC is that it protects minorities like people in rural states. But the electoral college only elects the president. It therefore can not create any sort of balance, or even things out. It is basically binary, it can either completely ignore the will of the minority, or completely ignore the will of the majority, which is not better.
1.7.12.2.1.1. Con: The use of "minority" for citizens that live in rural regions of states seems to be a mis-use of the term. Are there exclusively rural states? For example, Utah \(total pop. c. 3.1 million in 2017\) has a smaller population than New Jersey \(total pop c. 9.0 million in 2017\), but a considerably larger land mass. Both states have proportionally large cities - Salt Lake and Newark -and both states have rural regions. New Jersey is even called the "Garden State."
1.7.12.2.2. Pro: Smaller states have a slightly disproportionate number of electors because electors given to a state are equal to the number of representatives plus two for their senators. Since the two for senators are given even to the tiniest state they give a disproportional advantage to larger states.
1.7.12.2.3. Con: Eliminating the electoral college would mean every vote had the exact same value, whether it was cast in a big state, a small state or a swing state.
1.7.12.2.4. Con: The electoral college is at best redundant. The allocation of two Senate seats per state, no matter the population, already adequately serves as a leveling agent among states.
1.7.12.2.4.1. Con: Allocating 2 senators per states acts as a partial balancing factor in the legislative process.   However, if there isn't a similar remedy \(such as the electoral college\) in the presidential election process, large states would completely dominate selection of the executive and would, thus, largely control executive power.
1.7.12.2.5. Pro: The electoral college was established to ensure that none of the individual states that agreed to join the United States would lose out on having their interests represented. Since the US is a huge country that in no way has uniform interests, it's important to give multiple voices equal power despite the principles of pure democracy in order for the country to survive as a coherent whole.
1.7.12.2.5.1. Con: The interests of the states are represented in the Senate, where all states are equal regardless of population. For example, although California has a population approximating the total of the smallest 20 states, in the Senate such states outnumber California in representation 40-2.
1.7.12.2.5.2. Con: The Senate plays a unique role as a check on both the President and the House, and by extension the popular majority. All cabinet and judicial appointments must be approved by the Senate; all treaties must receive the consent of two-thirds of the Senate; and, of course, all legislation must pass through both the House and Senate.
1.7.12.2.5.2.1. Con: In theory, yes. In practice, not so much. With the proliferation of exec orders handed down by the potus, there is little meaningful legislation, that is to say, hot-button legislation that requires bipartisan support, that is passing through both houses.
1.7.12.2.5.3. Con: The practical effect of an electoral college in modern times does not provide equal power to multiple voices, it provides unequal power to some voices on the basis of geographic location.
1.7.12.2.6. Con: The Senate that equalizes all states, and HoRs to represent individual communities, the president represents the whole country, \(all states\) thus popular vote is the only justifiable method of election.
1.7.12.2.6.1. Con: 51% of the population in the US lives in [9 states](http://worldpopulationreview.com/states/). 9 states provides 18 senators to the senate, leaving 82 senators elected from states with the minority of the population. If the senate really leveled the playing field between small and large states, there would be much smaller disparity.
1.7.12.2.7. Con: Arguments that the EC is needed to protect rural areas ignore the fact that rural areas are already significantly over-represented in Senate and slightly over-represented in the House. Given the legislative branch is already anti-majoritarian, arguing that the Executive branch should also be anti-majoritarian is simply arguing rural interests are more important those of urban interests.
1.7.12.2.8. Pro: With a pure popular vote, a 51% voting bloc could \(theoretically\) remain dominant 100% of the time, leaving the other 49% unrepresented 100% of the time.
1.7.12.2.8.1. Con: Just because there isn't an electoral college doesn't mean the election has to be just a popular vote. There are other voting systems that work better than either the electoral college or a pure popular vote.
1.7.12.2.8.2. Con: With the current system, a minority can remain dominant over the majority, as we see saw with the 2016 US presidential election where the minority picked the president even though the majority voted for the other candidate.
1.7.12.2.9. Pro: A look at the geographical distribution of the majority votes in the 2016 presidential election reveals the bullying potential of a presidential voting system based purely on a popular outcome.  With a pure popular vote, a few densely-populated geographic areas could always dominate the vast sparsely-populated areas where residents are far-removed both geographically and ideologically from the concentrated majorities.  [www.vividmaps.com](https://www.vividmaps.com/2016/12/trumpland-and-clinton-archipelago.html)
1.7.12.2.9.1. Con: The number of citizens that prefer a candidate is what matters. The number of square miles occupied by a candidate's supporters is irrelevant. Humans have inherent value. Square miles do not.
1.7.12.2.9.1.1. Con: A candidate having support across a broad range is also important. Being able to run up the score in one state with a narrow base of support does not lend itself to being able to govern across a vast nation.
1.7.12.2.10. Con: The electoral college actually gives LESS influence to small states. Candidates won't expend the same time and money to states with very few votes when they could be campaigning in very large states. Voters in Montana, for example, are not as important to them as voters in say, California. Therefore they get less attention to their opinions and needs than voters in larger states. With direct elections a voter in Montana becomes as important as a voter in California.
1.7.12.2.11. Con: People living in densely populated areas deserve as much voting power as anyone else.
1.7.12.2.12. Con: States are arbitrary boundaries to draw for purposes of rural/urban representation.
1.7.12.2.12.1. Con: States are not arbitrary boundaries. They are the sovreign constituents of a constitutional federation. The states created the United States.
1.7.12.2.13. Con: There is nothing "fair" about systematically disenfranchising people who live in densely populated areas.
1.7.12.2.14. Pro: The EC ensures that a candidate must appeal to all types of Americans. With over 3000 counties in the united states, a candidate would only need to win the 146 largest counties, making the campaign trail much shorter and minimizing the voices of anyone outside of the 146 largest counties.
1.7.12.2.15. Pro: The founders were very smart people. They understood the difference between metropolitan areas and outside metro areas. Metro areas usually vote liberal because metro areas have many more gov services than outside metro areas. Therefor in order to elect a President it was important to have a countrywide view. The electoral college controls that. Take the Trump election. If you removed NYC metro area and the LA & San Fran areas HRC would have lost the popular vote by a decent margin.
1.7.12.2.16. Pro: The electoral college exists to prevent the tyranny of densely populated urban areas over sparsely populated rural areas, which do not follow the same lifestyle or standard of living.
1.7.12.2.17. Pro: By living in the same geographical area, the people of that area will all have some similar concerns. If those concerns conflict with concerns of less populated areas then there must be some mechanism to make sure that the more densely populated areas' interests do not always take precedence.
1.7.12.2.17.1. Pro: Cultures vary as a function of distance. The goal of the electoral college is to preserve and speak for the various cultures of the US. It does not exist to represent the popular and possibly viral culture of the time. The electoral college promotes diversity and prevents hostile culture takeovers.
1.7.12.2.17.2. Pro: The electoral college only really alters votes as to establish a bare minimum amount of influence for each state, so that states like Wyoming will always have at least 3 votes out of 538. Is a minimum voting power of 0.56% really too much to ask? No it is not. America being so geographically and culturally diverse needs these protections from the electoral college to protect the rights of smaller states that would be totally ignored without it.
1.7.12.2.17.2.1. Con: A person in Wyoming who owns 1000 acres should not have a more powerful vote than a person in New York City who owns 1200 square feet. They should be equal.

The assertion that geography matters is incorrect. It's people that matter.
1.7.12.2.17.3. Con: The President is charged with representing all citizens and he or she does not make law, therefore it is not important that less populated political entities should have more voice in choosing the president. The laws that will most directly affect states are made in congress.
1.7.12.2.17.3.1. Pro: The Congress is the mechanism by which the needs of the less populated areas are represented.
1.7.12.2.17.3.2. Con: The president does have some power to directly affect states by executive orders and by directing federal agencies.
1.7.12.2.17.4. Con: Being a member of a natural minority with shared interests is not a sufficient reason to have one's vote weighted more heavily than that of someone from the marjority.
1.7.12.2.17.5. Con: Concerns of individual geographical areas are mainly addressed in local municipal government, not national government or national elections.
1.7.12.2.18. Pro: Without the electoral college, densely populated areas will dominate the country.
1.7.12.2.18.1. Pro: It makes the power of states more important than the power of a city. Each state has a say rather than things being dictated by the biggest cities \(NY, LA\).
1.7.12.2.18.1.1. Pro: There are more people in Los Angeles County alone than in 43 states. The electoral college gives the people in smaller states a voice in national elections whereas their voices would be drowned out by states with bigger populations otherwise. It also forces presidential candidates to listen to the people in smaller states who would otherwise be ignored. The electoral college works just fine.
1.7.12.2.18.2. Con: Large cities are made up of individuals. With popular vote, each person votes as he or she wills. The fact that they are concentrated in one geographic area does not change this. So any talk of high population density areas dominating less densely populated areas makes no sense.
1.7.12.2.18.3. Con: The House of Representatives is the mechanism by which states' needs are represented. The electoral college has no effect on that institution and therefore will not affect the representation of the states in our government.
1.7.12.2.18.4. Pro: The electoral college was instituted to protect against the event that a few densely populated states may hold a majority over the rest of the nation, thereby creating a situation where candidates only campaign in and win a few states, not appeal to the nation as a whole.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1. Con: Small states are already ignored because none are battleground states. Under a national popular vote every vote would count equally no matter the state.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1. Pro: The electoral college encourages candidates to focus their campaigns in a small group of swing states rather than the country as a whole.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.1. Con: It is not the electoral college itself that elevates the swing states.  It is the choice of almost all states to apportion electors via a "winner take all" system.  We would be better off if most states chose to use a proportional system for apportioning electors.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.1.1. Con: This claim forgets that a state's electoral college is composed, in part, by the number of its U.S. senators.  A proportionality requirement would not remove that injustice.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.1.2. Pro: Swing states only have their status because they could flip either way. If proportional systems were in place, current "safe" states would still be fertile campaign ground as a previously safe democrat state could be vulnerable to losing several votes to a republican minority.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.1.3. Con: The states choose to apportion this way because it gives them more power than states that split their votes. Unless proportional distribution is mandated for all, states will continue to have incentive to use winner take all.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.2. Con: The difference would be that most populous cities would get the attention instead of the swing states and the largest cities have vastly different interests than the rest of the country.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.3. Con: The electoral college serves as a moderating influence on Presidential elections. Absent the EC, there would be a strong incentive for candidates to pander to their base in an effort to "run up the score" in deeply partisan areas. The EC limits the benefit of running up the score with the base and forces a more broad-based appeal in swing states, where voters tend to be more centrist.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.3.1. Pro: No party's base can generate more than 50% of the vote. Absent a sizeable third party major party candidates would be pushed to the center without the electoral college.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.3.2. Con: Evidence points the other way. Twice in recent history, we have had the popular vote overruled by the electoral college. In *both* of those cases, the EC winner was far more extreme than the popular vote winner.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.3.2.1. Con: Extreme can only be said from a subjective point of view. From the opposite viewpoint, they could be said to be exceptional. Both times you're talking about was also approved by a large percentage anyways so it wasn't like it was 30% vs 70%. With that in place, that would make them both more "average" than "extreme."
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.3.2.2. Con: This is confusing national results versus individual state results. With the possible exception of Florida in 2000, the winner of the state's electoral votes was the popular vote winner in that state.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.3.3. Pro: It is only in a very close election that the EC would give the election to the candidate with fewer popular votes and in the case of a close election it insures that the winner has more broad based support.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.3.3.1. Con: In the Election of 2016, the Electoral College went to the candidate that lost the popular vote by almost 3 million votes. The winner of the popular vote got more votes than any other candidate in history, except for Barack Obama’s win in 2008.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.3.4. Con: A review of the primary and general election campaigns of Donald Trump shows he pandered almost exclusively to his base and yet he won the electoral college. The “Mexicans are rapists” and phrases like “[America First,](https://www.washingtonpost.com/posteverything/wp/2016/06/14/donald-trumps-new-favorite-slogan-has-a-nazi-friendly-history/?utm_term=.7ca95ba9cb61)” which was used by American Nazi sympathizers in the 1930s and 1940s, aren’t mainstream at all. Being endorsed by [David Duke](https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2016/08/05/488802494/former-kkk-leader-david-duke-says-of-course-trump-voters-are-his-voters) isn’t moderate, it thrilled his “Alt-Right” base.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.3.5. Con: The idea that swing state voters tend to be more centrist doesn't hold water. Places like North Carolina, Florida, and Pennsylvania are classic swing states, but are also have some of the most partisan voters. It just so happens that in those states, there tends to be about the same number of each. There isn't any correlation between having more swing voters and being a swing state. [fivethirtyeight.com](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/swing-voters-and-elastic-states/)
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.4. Con: The founders in their brilliance created the EC to make sure all areas, cities and rural were important to the national election process. Otherwise, candidates would never concentrate on anything but those populated areas that would elect them. This presents a process so national candidates must appeal to a national base.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.5. Con: Abolishing the EC would make their campaign focus even smaller as 51% of the US population lives in only 146 counties out of 3,242 counties in the US. \(4.5%\) Campaigns would likely target the top 200, meaning their campaign would focus on a geographic 6% of America.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6. Con: Removing the electoral college would cause candidates to focus on the most populous parts of the country, especially cities, leaving many rural areas behind.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.1. Con: If candidates ignore rural voters and anger them, rural voters can make their presence felt in the following elections. If their collective presence isn't enough to matter that's unfortunate for them, but that also means there is a larger group with different priorities/desires. That is democracy, majority rules.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.2. Pro: According to The World Bank, 18% of the US population lives in rural areas.[data.worldbank.org](http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.RUR.TOTL.ZS?locations=US)
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.2.1. Con: The subject context was urban populations, and this point dealt only with rural populations, not suburban populations, so your data is incomplete in the context of the subject claim.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.3. Con: Mass media and social media make it easier than ever before to reach rural voters, making them a more attractive target to influence, since they wield more power than urban voters.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.3.1. Con: Mass media and social media targeting rural voters would not be needed as the rural vote would not be required.  Candidates need only focus on the high-density urban areas.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.4. Con: The electoral college does not currently focus attention of candidates on rural areas. The electoral college focuses candidates on swing states, which are not typically rural states.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.4.1. Pro: Pennsylvania is a swing state. It has both rural and urban areas. But it’s often lumped in with the “coastal elites” by conservatives who mean it to be disparaging. But, Harrisburg is the capital, in the western part of the state which is the rural half, and the state government is dominated by conservatives. Candidates usually visit both the big cities and the rural areas throughout a campaign. \(I know this because as a Pennsylvanian, I witness it every four years.\)
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.4.2. Con: That states with highest ranking population centers all tend to vote the same way also highlights the importance of the electoral college.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.4.3. Con: The original point \(that candidates would focus too much on population-dense areas in a popular vote system\) still stands. Candidates focus on states with many college votes that are also likely to flip between one party or another \(such as Ohio or Florida\), as opposed to populous urban areas where a candidate can reach more people. The existence of swing states proves that the electoral college is working as intended.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.5. Con: Candidates already focus on the most populous parts of the country. They only visit rural areas during the primaries. Removing the electoral college would have zero net affect on this issue. Rural voters have plenty of geographically elected officials such as mayors, city or county councils, sheriffs, and Congressmen, and Senators to rely upon.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.6. Pro: If we abolish the electoral college, Presidential candidates would need only to appeal to the needs of the few, highly populated locales in the US, and can essentially ignore the needs of vast rural swaths of the country whose votes are vastly outnumbered by those in urban areas.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.7. Con: If a candidate managed to get 100% support in all of [the 100 largest cities in America](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_United_States_cities_by_population#United_States), they would lose with only 20% of the vote.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.7.1. Con: Why assume candidates would solely focus on densely populated areas? Even if they did, look at this list of MSAs \(Metropolitan Statistical Areas\) and their populations as these include suburbs which candidates would effectively target if they focused on the 100 largest cities you cited. That includes significantly more than 20% of the voting population. [US MSAs by Population](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_metropolitan_statistical_areas)
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.6.8. Con: It matters little, in this respect, if there is an electoral college. Candidates will put their resources where the most people are. It would be a waste of money to hold a rally in rural farmland when you can communicate with far more people in a large community.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.7. Con: While candidates' campaigns are focused on the contested areas, they must select a platform with broad appeal. Otherwise they would lose credibility with their voting base. Thus they have to adopt a platform that appeals to rural and urban areas or just enough of those areas to carry the vote.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.7.1. Con: A platform with broad appeal doesn't mitigate the unfairness of focusing a campaign on swing states.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.7.2. Con: Selecting a general platform with broad appeal doesn't prevent a candidate from pandering on particular issue for one state even if it is broadly harmful. [See Ethanol subsidies](http://thefederalist.com/2015/10/21/how-pandering-to-iowas-ethanol-lobby-hurts-america/).
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.8. Pro: When elections are effectively determined by the outcome in just a handful of states, there is an incentive for candidates to spend the most time there, as opposed to in states that always vote one way.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.8.1. Pro: California receives little attention during the campaign, even though the Democrats have little chance of winning without it.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.8.2. Con: The same would be true with an national popular vote election - it would just be different states - CA, NY, and TX instead of OH, FL, etc.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.8.3. Pro: 120 million people voted in the 2016 election, but it was effectively decided by 107,000 votes in just [three states.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/politics/2016-election/swing-state-margins/)
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.8.4. Pro: And this effectively makes the votes in swing states more influential to the outcome of the election.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.8.5. Pro: Citizens of really small states have an outsized impact compared to citizens of large states. Iowa voters get much more attention, and promises, than California voters, which is by nature an inequality.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.8.5.1. Con: Iowa is only slightly 'over-represented' and is [less so than multiple other states](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/politics/how-fair-is-the-electoral-college/). Iowa has an outsized impact on elections, not because of their electoral votes, but because it always has the earliest primaries, making it an area that almost every candidate focuses on early in the election. Once the parties have selected their nominees, Iowa's significance falls to that of most non-battleground state.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.9. Pro: A small number of swing states get almost all the attention from the candidates. [Ninety four](http://www.nationalpopularvote.com/campaign-events-2016) percent of all campaign events in 2016 were in just 12 states.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.9.1. Pro: [In-person campaign stops](http://www.gmu.edu/schools/chss/economics/icesworkingpapers.gmu.edu/pdf/1031.pdf) by candidates have a powerful psychological effect that is not present in TV and radio coverage of such events.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.9.1.1. Con: If the electoral college is abolished, and campaigns are targeting the whole country rather than a few swing states, elections will take place even more on television than they already do, because it will be necessary in order to reach larger amounts of people who are scattered all over the country, the campaigns becoming even more impersonal and dependent on money; local networks will no longer have as much influence.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.9.2. Con: If the electoral college was abolished, it would go from the swing states to the major urban areas. The top five urban areas have a combined population of more than 60 million. That is almost half of the 2016 voter turnout.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.9.2.1. Con: Of those urban areas only about 24 million are registered voters, nor do they vote unanimously for a single candidate. Candidates will need more than urban centers to win an election.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.9.2.1.1. Con: They do not vote unanimously for a candidate, however highly dense urban populations are largely uniform in culture and easier to control politically.  For example, New York State is largely conservative, however it is consistently a blue state in Federal elections because a single city \(New York City\) is able to override the rest of the state.  The current Governor Cuomo remains in power despite openly insulting non-liberal constituents on a regular basis.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.9.3. Pro: Two-thirds of the 2016 presidential campaign events [were in just six states,](http://www.nationalpopularvote.com/campaign-events-2016) of which North Carolina is the most rural one, with still over 60% of the population living in urban areas. \([Census 2010](https://priceonomics.com/the-most-urbanized-states-in-america/)\)
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.9.4. Con: With the internet and mass media, this is a moot point.  You should be able to gauge what a candidate is all about without them physically visiting your state in this age.  Every word is scrutinized and analyzed by the media.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.9.4.1. Con: Campaign events are more about physical visits. They are an indication of a candidate's concern for a particular state. A state not in competition will be less likely to have their specific concerns addressed.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.9.5. Con: The electoral college handles federal elections. If you are worried about what a politician is going to do for your state, you need to be more interested in your state representative that goes to congress.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.10. Pro: A national popular vote would allow and encourage candidates to build coalitions across the country as every vote would count equally.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.10.1. Con: The Electoral College already allows for coalitions to form across the country. For example, in the 2008 presidential election, it was evident that Obama won with a coalition of urban dwellers, women, suburbanites, non-white voters, and blue-collar voters.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.10.2. Con: Avoiding mob rule, which is what the popular vote would be, is the exact reason The Founding Fathers came up with the electoral college. Even then they understood that the majority of the country would be ignored.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.10.3. Pro: Coalitions would lead to a candidate reflecting policies more widely supported as every vote said position wins over will improve the candidates chances of winning.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.10.4. Con: Popular vote doesn't mean a fair vote. If the US only followed popular vote, middle states that contribute most of US agriculture/Industry etc would be completely ignored due to their lack of populace compared to big city states like California, Texas and Florida. Therefore the EC gives a more equal voice to those states.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.11. Con: The general election is only one stage of the election process, and swing states get less attention during earlier stages. Compare Georgia and Ohio, who on population rankings are neighbors. Georgia matters far more than Ohio a year prior to the election.
1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.11.1. Con: If a state only matters during the Primary, then the voters of that state effectively only get to choose between candidates of a single party, after which the Winner-take-all system essentially promises their votes to that winner.
1.7.12.2.18.5. Pro: Under a majority vote system, candidates will run on policies that benefit high population states and will ignore smaller states.
1.7.12.2.18.5.1. Con: Under a popular vote, state boundaries would be completely irrelevant to the winner of the election.
1.7.12.2.18.6. Pro: A country is about more than just the people living in it. It's also about the resources that enable those people to live and carry on an existence. The electoral college protects areas with important resources from being ignored by people in densely populated areas.
1.7.12.2.18.7. Con: With the EC, the lesser populated areas have disproportionately more power, and thus \(as evidenced by the most recent election\), they can dominate the country in the same way.
1.7.12.2.18.7.1. Pro: In a democracy, domination by a selected minority \(in this case rural areas\) is not necessarily preferable, and most likely worse, than domination by the majority.
1.7.12.2.19. Con: Areas do not vote, nor are they promised representation under democracy. It is the people who have influence.
1.7.12.2.19.1. Pro: Reducing the influence of densely populated areas goes against the principle of one person, one vote, in favor of the principle that the opinions of those with more land are more important than the opinions of the masses.
1.7.12.2.19.2. Con: The United States is a union of States, and the States are promised representation in the Electoral College.  The people are not promised any representation in the Electoral College, as it was built to be elected by state legislatures, not the people.
1.7.12.2.19.3. Pro: The electoral college gives more consideration to the space between people than to the people themselves.
1.7.12.2.20. Con: People should not be penalized for where they choose to live. All votes should carry equal weight when counted for the same race.
1.7.12.2.20.1. Con: People are responsible for where they go, who they associate with, what they say and more appropriately where they settle. Dense population centers would not only receive the most attention in election cycles, they would also monopolize the candidates. Campaign funds are finite and if more rural states don't have the power of population to attract the candidates, they would have no reason to visit. It is unfair to suggest that those people don't deserve the same attention as large cities.
1.7.12.2.20.2. Pro: The fact that an area is more densely populated just means that there are more individuals living there. Reducing one person's power to elect a president just because that person lives near others is unfair.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1. Pro: Because the President represents the entire population of the country, all citizens should have equal say in his or her election.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.1. Con: In a strict democracy there is a strong danger of the "tyranny of the majority" in which the needs of the minority on any given topic tend to be ignored. We need the electoral college to mitigate this danger.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.1.1. Pro: Removing the electoral college would allow further encroachment by the federal government into local decision making. We are a constitutional republic, not a democracy. "Democracy eventually exhausts, betrays & murders itself" leading to a tyranny of the minority.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.1.2. Con: All of the safeguards against the tyranny of the majority remain in place in the other two branches of the government. The electoral college is about electing a single office, not representing various groups against each other.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.1.3. Con: The electoral college does not end tyranny of the majority; it replaces it with tyranny of the minority by letting them choose the president instead. The bill of rights is used to protect minority rights by preventing laws or policies that harm rights even if the people support it. This prevents tyranny of the majority from being a large problem in the US. Instead, the electoral college simply allows a president to undermine the will of the people without cause or proof of minority harm.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.1.4. Con: As practiced today the electoral college is an example of tyranny of the majority. In most states with a "winner take all" method of awarding electors a mere plurality controls one hundred percent of electors and disregards all other voices.[archive.nationalpopularvote.com](http://archive.nationalpopularvote.com/pages/answers/section.php?s=33)
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.2. Pro: Any election where the option with the most votes does not win is an injustice.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.2.1. Con: Not all voting systems that are not one-person-one-vote voting systems are unjust. Sometimes the votes must be unequal to be just.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.2.1.1. Pro: One example where one-person-one-vote is unjust is when there is a stockholder vote for a company. It would be unjust if the person owning only one share got the same number of votes as the one owning 60% of the shares, because the one with more shares has more at stake in the company.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.2.1.1.1. Con: This example does not show how votes in a democracy sometimes need to be weighted. Corporate governance votes are weighted because ownership stakes are unequal. But a fundamental tenet of democracy is that all citizens have an equal stake in our government. This is therefore a misleading example.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.2.1.1.1.1. Con: That fundamental tenet is precisely the point under debate. It is a logical fallacy to prove it so by assuming it as a given.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.2.2. Con: The [Condorcet Method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Condorcet_method) is a system whereby the candidate with the most broad appeal is declared the winner, and in some cases a candidate with fewer total 1st rank votes can win because they have more consistent lower ranked votes.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.3. Con: The founders could easily have made the president be chosen by popular vote, but did not.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.3.1. Con: Had the founders chosen the popular vote as the method of election, southerners as a voting body would have been greatly outnumbered because a large portion of their population \(slaves\) were not allowed to vote. Hence why they chose an indirect method that weighted southern votes based on population.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.3.1.1. Pro: The founding fathers were under tremendous pressure to get the Constitution ratified, and this would not have happened if small states felt disenfranchised by election protocol. The electoral college was an imperfect compromise, like many other polices at the time.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.3.2. Con: What the founders thought doesn't matter. They also believed that we should not directly elect our senators, but we changed that because we found it to be prone to corruption and against the American values of democracy and self-determination. We keep the government they set up because we agree with their ideas, and not because they wrote them. The day we find a flaw in their ideas, we have the prerogative to change them, as modifications can be made to the Constitution.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.3.3. Con: -> See 1.5.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.4. Con: The President's legal responsibility is to represent the collective will of the states as expressed through the electoral college, not the population of the country.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.4.1. Con: The President's Legal responsibility is to preserve, protect and defend the constitution. If the electoral college is abolished his or her responsibility will change accordingly.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.4.1.1. Pro: [Article II Section III](https://constitutionallawreporter.com/article-02-section-03/) mentions no responsibility of the president to represent any entities' will other than that of the US Constitution and its laws.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.4.2. Con: States and territories mean nothing without the people who inhabit them.  Sovereignty lies ultimately with the People. The Constitution begins with the words "We, the People" not the states.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.5. Pro: There are plenty of geographically elected officials, from local mayors and sheriffs, state representatives and senators, all the way to Congressmen, Governors, and Senators. The President should be of the people, for the people, by the people.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.6. Pro: The electoral college violates the fundamental democratic principle of "one person, one vote". It amplifies the votes of small states such as Wyoming far beyond those of large states such as California.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.7. Con: The president represents the head of the republic, not our democracy. As such, they must represent all the different voices and experiences that make up the whole of the country. Not the majority of the population with the exact same life experience, perspective, and even location.  If we did things as you suggest, minorities \(People of Color\) in this country would NEVER have been given a voice.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.7.1. Con: The electoral college does not and was never meant to give racial minorities a voice. It was partly created to empower slave states, which had fewer eligible voters than others.
1.7.12.2.20.2.1.7.2. Con: A Republic has the people elect people to represent them in various offices. Senators, representatives \(federal and state level\) and governors are all elected by a popular vote. This does not change the republican form of government.
1.7.12.2.20.2.2. Con: The individual is encouraged to recognize that they are a part of their state, then the country.
1.7.12.2.20.2.3. Con: Democracy must also protect the rights of the minority. Densely populated areas can easily dominate and oppress the minority without something to mitigate their influence.
1.7.12.2.20.2.3.1. Con: The electoral college as it exists trades the tyranny of the majority for the tyranny of the swing states.
1.7.12.2.21. Con: The executive is a representative of all citizens throughout America, while a legislator is a representative of citizens within specific American geographic areas. The EC is a legislative electoral mechanism inappropriately applied to the executive branch.
1.7.12.2.21.1. Pro: Densely populated cities are already under represented in the Senate.
1.7.12.2.22. Con: This [video](https://youtu.be/_gbwv5hf2Ps) debunks the myth of rural states being ignored in favor of big cities in two ways \(with some statistics\): \(1\) "Big cities" account for a much smaller fraction of the U.S. population than people think. \(2\) In a single state \(Ohio\) in which the election is pure popular vote, campaign events and money are evenly distributed between urban and rural areas.
1.7.12.2.23. Pro: The electoral college is able to represent rural interests that would otherwise go entirely unexpressed at the national level. Abolishing the electoral college would leave vast swaths of the country, often the most impoverished, politically disenfranchised.
1.7.12.2.23.1. Pro: Over 50% of the country live in 146 counties. The electoral college encourages candidates to be more broad, to appeal to more of the country than just 146 out of 3,000 counties.

\([U.S. Census Bureau data site](https://factfinder.census.gov/faces/tableservices/jsf/pages/productview.xhtml?src=bkmk)\)
1.7.12.2.23.1.1. Con: This is not a problem, because this is proportionate representation.

If State X has half the number of voters, it *should* have half the amount of impact.

Worded another way: The voters in State X should not get a boost in voting power just because they're spread out over a large area.
1.7.12.2.23.2. Con: First, we do not actually know rural areas would be anymore ignored than say how Wyoming is treated now. Second, even if true, there is no justification for prioritizing the concerns of rural voters over those of suburban and urban voters. Rather than prioritize voters based on their geography granting each voter the same voting influence is the only approach that qualifies as equitable.
1.7.12.2.23.3. Con: It seems unlikely that rural areas are necessarily more impoverished than urban areas, especially given the large quantities of homelessness present in many urban areas. Instituting popular rule merely reaches more people, thus not inherently disenfranchising the poor.
1.7.13. Pro: The electoral college is not as efficient as other methods of voting in terms of representing the will of the majority. For example, "[Ranked Choice Voting](http://www.fairvote.org/rcv#rcvbenefits)," also known as "Instant Run-Off Voting," has been shown to more reliably produce results that are in line with the wishes of the majority of voters.
1.7.13.1. Con: The vast majority of the divergence from the will of the majority is due to how most states allocate their electoral votes, NOT an issue with the electoral college itself.
1.7.13.2. Con: The Will of the Majority in Our System is not relevant. The whole point of our system is to prevent majorities from usurping the rights of the minorities.
1.7.14. Con: The electoral college is how the founding fathers compromised on a process that would be most fair to most voters, by giving equal voice to every voter in every state, based on population, as measured by the number of representatives in Congress. It should stay, so that each vote in states like Iowa & Montana will have the same weight as each vote in NY and CA.
1.7.14.1. Con: The electoral college actually reduces the impact of most votes, because it negates votes in 'safe' states.  If the winning party gets 50% of the vote in one state, the rest of the vote doesn't matter.  A red vote in a 'safe' blue state never matters, and vice versa.  Removing the electoral college would, in fact, allow such votes to matter again.
1.7.15. Pro: The possibility of a candidate winning the election but losing the popular vote undermines the perception of legitimacy of the victory.
1.7.15.1. Con: If we elect by popular vote instead \(as you suggest here\) then it is entirely possible for a single populous area of the country \(New York City or Houston, let's say\) to choose the President. Thus, only things that matter to those areas will be campaigned for or voted on. The purpose of the electoral college is to represent as many of the country's varied interests as possible.
1.7.15.1.1. Con: If an issue affects more people then it has a greater impact and should be prioritized.
1.7.15.1.1.1. Con: It already is a priority under the college. A state's voting power is determined by the number of house seats and senate seats; therefore, more populous states have more votes. Yes, the number of people affected by an issue is important, but states also need a say in how they're run. You can't just say 'more people are helped by X than Y' and then implement X. Such a system is ripe for abuse at the hands of mob rule.
1.7.15.1.2. Con: No single big city can win a national election. The 50 largest cities in the U.S. only have 15 percent of the total population. Even then it would be implausible that any candidate would win anywhere near 100 percent of that amount.
1.7.15.1.2.1. Con: Comparisons making use of the US' total population ignores that the US' population does not have a 100% vote participation rate. In the 2016 election, Clinton won the popular vote by a margin of less than 3 million votes, which is less than 1% of the US population and easily the size of a large city or two. Even if that were ignored, it doesn't change that urban/city concerns would dominate the presidential cycle.
1.7.15.1.3. Con: Disenfranchising a voter because they live in a high population area vs a low population area is contrary to american values.
1.7.15.1.4. Con: Most of the major issues in modern politics are matters of people's opinions of right and wrong, not region-specific interests. When those issues are the focus, the electoral college serves to make some people's political opinions more important than others based solely on where they live.
1.7.15.2. Pro: The popular vote takes advantage of the [wisdom of crowds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wisdom_of_Crowds) so that the best candidate is chosen for the job.
1.7.15.2.1. Con: The ["wisdom of the crowds"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wisdom_of_Crowds) is a hypothetical, unscientific phenomena that can in no capacity be a factor in reforming the election system of any state, being merely a marginal concept in the larger field of political, psychological and sociological thought.
1.7.15.3. Pro: Democracy is driven by the concept of rule by majority. A system where a candidate is chosen by the minority is not a true democracy.
1.7.15.3.1. Con: The United States is a constitutional republic, not a democracy.
1.7.15.3.1.1. Con: The entire topic under discussion is the question about the abolition of the electoral college, which requires a Constitutional Amendment which will not alter the nation's form of government from republic to democracy. According to James[Madison](https://www.britannica.com/topic/democracy/Democracy-or-republic), the former refers to the election of representatives by voters, while the latter refers to direct voting on all matters directly by a small group of citizens. The US would still be administered by elected representatives.
1.7.15.3.1.1.1. Con: It would not violate the constitution since states can use any method they see fit to award electors. A group of states have agreed to award electors to the winner of the popular vote if enough states agree to do the same.[National Popular Vote Interstate Compact](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Popular_Vote_Interstate_Compact)
1.7.15.3.2. Con: Thus why we aren’t a democracy as others have stated. A minority who’s voice is constantly overrun by the majority could lead to a level of frustration and revolt that in the end fractures the country permanently. The electoral college means that all voices must be heard and responded to, not just rule of a large geography by those located in just a few locations. Difficult compromise is a great thing.
1.7.15.3.3. Con: The United States is a democratic republic not a democracy. In a democracy, we would be ruled by the omnipotent majority which causes any minority group to be over powered by the majority. While a democratic republic is similar, it gives a voice to the minority whose voice may be overrun in a democracy. Hence, the electoral college\(EC\). Without the EC the minority group\(s\) of voters wouldn't have a voice and would be ruled by the group think of their opposing party.
1.7.15.3.3.1. Con: The electoral college does nothing to prevent a tyranny of the majority.
1.7.15.3.3.2. Con: A democratic republic is a type of democracy.
1.7.15.3.4. Pro: Democratic governance requires an educated citizenry and common interest. Unfortunately, under the current system, the minority that prevails is not the most educated or benevolent but simply the most vocal and best funded, which undermines the democratic tradition.
1.7.15.3.5. Con: The United States was never intended to be a direct democracy.  In the early days, senators were not directly elected in states \(they were elected by state legislatures\), and, in most states, only male landowners were franchised to vote.
1.7.15.3.5.1. Con: Choosing the president by popular vote would not make the US a direct democracy.  It would continue to be a representative democracy.
1.7.15.4. Pro: Winning the Pesidency without the popular vote not only is a great disadvantage for the person who becomes president without the majority of people behind him or her, but it is demoralizing to the majority of the people who voted for someone else.  It is destabilizing to the country and flies in the face of the Constitutional idea of "One person, one vote"
1.7.15.5. Pro: Currently it is possible to win the presidential election with only 22% of the popular vote if you win the right states. This means that less than a fourth of the people in the U.S. could decide who becomes major federal political figures. Even if unlikely, this is a possible and permitted outcome of the system and is a sign of a broken democracy. [A video illustrating how to win the presidential election with only 22% of the vote.](https://youtu.be/7wC42HgLA4k?t=4m18s)
1.7.15.5.1. Con: That video is based on a lot of faulty reasoning. That exceedingly unlikely outcome is only \(theoretically\) possibly because of how states award their electoral votes. THAT is not a problem with the electoral college itself, but with how states allocate outcomes.
1.7.16. Pro: -> See 1.1.2.5.
1.7.17. Pro: The electoral college defies the principle of equality of voters: one person, one vote.
1.7.17.1. Pro: Voters residing in a district overwhelmingly controlled by the opposing party effectively have no vote.
1.7.17.2. Con: Each voter within each state has the equal right to influence the Presidential Election within their state. That's one person, one vote. Individuals do not elect our President. The States elect our President.
1.7.17.3. Pro: The electoral college causes the votes of some citizens to have substantially more power to select a president than those of other citizens.
1.7.17.3.1. Con: -> See 1.7.12.2.18.
1.7.17.3.2. Con: Our Congress has two houses to apply two different balances of power: in the House, power is distributed proportionally to state population; in the Senate, power is distributed per state and inherently gives low-population states a disproportionate balance of power.  The imbalance in our electoral system is a similar attempt to blend the power of population with the power of states.
1.7.17.3.3. Con: The voting power is not bound to a person, but to a place. Therefore everyone has the same voting power, because everyone is allowed to move.
1.7.17.3.3.1. Con: Many times it is not feasible for low-income families and individuals to move to a new state; therefore lower income citizens do not have equal voting power in the context of this argument.
1.7.17.3.3.1.1. Pro: In addition, family ties do tend to keep people local. This is one of the reasons people don't leave Appalachia in search of employment elsewhere.
1.7.17.3.3.2. Con: The potential to increase or decrease your voting power does not make voting power equal.
1.7.17.3.4. Pro: The electoral college gives smaller states [disproportionate amounts of power](http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2008/11/02/opinion/20081102_OPCHART.html?_r=3&).
1.7.17.3.4.1. Pro: If you live in Wyoming, Vermont, and/or North Dakota, your vote counts 3 times as much as the national average.
1.7.17.3.4.2. Con: The power of voters in a weighted voting system like the electoral college is counterintuitive.[A careful mathematical analysis shows that the electoral college gives voters in different states somewhat arbitrary amouts of power, not uniformly related to population.](https://www.everything2.com/user/kthejoker/writeups/Electoral+College) The general trend is that a voter in a large state typically has more power to influence the outcome of an election than a voter in a small state.
1.7.17.3.4.2.1. Con: The Banzhaf Power Index \(BPI\) assumes that the votes of states are completely independent of each other. Since this assumption is invalid, it's computed voter power indices are invalid. Whereas the link predicts a likelihood of 23% that CA, NY, or TX are tipping point states, these have not been tipping point states since at least 1968.
1.7.17.3.4.3. Con: The electoral college doesn't do this any more than Congress does.
1.7.17.3.4.3.1. Con: Congress and the electoral college both wrongly give disproportionate power to small states.
1.7.17.3.4.3.2. Con: This is a logical fallacy of false equivalence. The President has far different powers than Congress, and it is all concentrated in one office.
1.7.17.3.4.4. Pro: This is especially true given the existence of "swing states" which have a lot of control over elections despite having an absolutely minute share of the country's population.
1.7.17.3.5. Pro: This New York Times article shows the [disproportionate representation of rural voters](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/upshot/as-american-as-apple-pie-the-rural-votes-disproportionate-slice-of-power.html?_r=0), not just \(geographically\) small states.
1.7.17.3.6. Con: The imbalance of electing power built into the electoral college is intentional. It keeps meaningful sovereignty and differentiation among the states. Large states wield enormous power in other contexts. The electoral college is one way to empower residents of smaller states.
1.7.17.3.6.1. Con: The framers protected the interests of smaller states by creating the Senate, which gives each state two votes regardless of population. [There is no need for additional protection.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/five-myths-about-the-electoral-college/2012/11/02/2d45c526-1f85-11e2-afca-58c2f5789c5d_story.html?utm_term=.9cc18e490ec1)
1.7.17.3.6.1.1. Con: It's not about need, it's about desirability. A nation-state doesn't need democratic elections, either, but we agree that elections are desirable. That's the standard by which the electoral college should be judged.
1.7.17.3.6.2. Con: The extra representation of smaller states is inappropriate when applied to election of president.
1.7.17.3.6.2.1. Con: The election of president is the only time that disproportional representation could even be applicable.
1.7.17.3.6.2.1.1. Con: The disproportionate representation for smaller states is applicable when allotting representatives for the state in the House of Representatives. This is, in fact, the situation for which it was devised.
1.7.17.3.6.2.1.1.1. Con: The degree of disproportionate electors for smaller states given by the electoral college is insignificant.
1.7.17.3.6.2.1.2. Con: Even if a situation is the only one to which a system might be applicable, it does not necessarily follow that it is applicable to that situation. It is possible that the system is applicable nowhere.
1.7.17.3.6.2.2. Pro: State identity is no longer as important to citizens as it once was. Most citizens now consider themselves Americans first and state citizens second.
1.7.17.3.6.2.3. Pro: The interests of states as entities are represented in both The Senate and The House, which together have power in many ways superior to that of the President. The interests of states as entities do not also need to be represented in the election of a president.
1.7.17.3.6.2.4. Pro: The disproportionate number of representatives given to smaller states is because the interests of the state as a whole might be under represented if the representatives were chosen strictly based on population. But the president represents all citizens, not all states, so one person one vote is a more appropriate model.
1.7.17.3.6.2.5. Con: If we believe that states have local cultures that vary from state to state, then different weights given to different states' voters could potentially promote election by a broader diversity of cultures or ideologies, not just of larger like-minded populations.
1.7.17.3.6.2.6. Con: If we take seriously the idea that we are a federation of states, then certainly the extra power held by states with large populations is just as warping as the extra power held by states with small populations \(relatively\). It's a compromise between the two, and without assuming which one is correct, we can't say it's inappropriate.
1.7.17.3.6.2.6.1. Con: The idea of The United States as our primary allegiance as citizens is far more foremost in the minds of citizens today than it was in the 1700's. There is no reason to think that the average person today thinks of their state when casting their vote for president.
1.7.17.3.6.3. Con: How something was intended doesn't matter.  We have to look at how it functions now.
1.7.17.3.6.3.1. Con: How it was intended speaks to whether or not it should be reformed back to it's original intended manner of working, rather than abolished.
1.7.17.3.6.4. Pro: The number of electors is equal to the number of members of Congress. Congress was set up as a balance between the interests of the states themselves, and the interests of the people within those states \(to avoid a tyrannical majority\).
1.7.17.3.6.4.1. Con: The balance between states themselves and the people of those states that is built into congress is due to there being two houses, the Senate representing the state and the House of Representatives representing the people. Both must agree to pass a law. No such mechanism is carried over into the electoral college just by basing the number of electors on the total number of senators and representatives.
1.7.17.3.6.4.1.1. Pro: There is no distinction between electors allotted to match the number of representatives and those allotted to match the number of senators.
1.7.17.3.6.4.1.2. Pro: The votes of all electors count equally. None have the ability to invalidate the votes of others the way that the Senate can invalidate the votes of the House and visa-versa.
1.7.17.3.6.4.2. Con: As the number of electors is based on the number of representatives and senators, which is based upon the state's population, small states still have virtually no impact on the electoral outcome.
1.7.17.3.7. Con: The 14th Amendment was established to provide equal protection of guaranteed rights under the Constitution. What you are advocating for is called direct democracy which is a danger to minority populations, and also not the original intent of our Republic.
1.7.17.3.7.1. Con: This claim incorrectly defines a direct democracy. In a direct democracy, citizens do not elect representatives at all, but all voting citizens have a say in every decision the state makes. Eliminating the electoral college would not transform the United States from a representative democracy to a direct democracy.
1.7.17.3.7.1.1. Con: -> See 1.7.15.3.1.
1.7.17.3.8. Pro: The 14th Amendment establishes[equal protection under the law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equal_Protection_Clause). Citizens in larger states do not have equal power to those in smaller states in a presidential election.
1.7.17.3.8.1. Con: Every voter has equal standing to participate in their state's process for assigning electoral votes. That is sufficient equality to meet the legal requirements of the 14th Amendment.
1.7.17.4. Pro: -> See 1.7.12.2.20.2.1.
1.7.17.5. Con: The electoral college now serves as a protection against tyranny of the majority. The electoral college exists for the same reasons we have the Senate, the Filibuster, and Supermajorities. Winning more votes shouldn't win you an election if all those votes are in a few states.
1.7.17.5.1. Pro: The majority always likes pure democracy, but they fail to realize they are never the majority forever. One day they will be the political minority. When they are, they will wish for protections against tyranny by the majority.
1.7.17.5.2. Con: The current system allows you to win an election by winning more votes in a few swing states.
1.7.17.5.3. Con: The tyranny of the majority applies to the legislature, not the executive, therefore examples utilizing senate, filibuster, and super-majorities are irrelevant.
1.7.17.5.4. Con: -> See 1.7.15.3.
1.7.17.5.5. Con: Winning more votes SHOULD win you an election, even if they are in a few states. Doing otherwise makes the votes of people in those states mean less than those in others.
1.7.17.5.6. Con: -> See 1.7.12.2.20.2.3.1.
1.7.17.6. Con: The president does not just represent citizens, but also a federation of states as well. Each state has different interests and needs. If every vote was equal, California would dominate the presidency. This would mean that the executive would be beholden to California's needs at the expense of the remaining states. This is why we have an electoral college, not simply a popular vote.
1.7.17.6.1. Con: There a variety of views in California just as there are in every state. Every member of every state expects their views to be represented equally. A popular vote gives every voter in every state a voice.
1.7.17.6.2. Con: If every vote were equal, California would only control [12%](https://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=population+of+california+%2F+population+of+US+to+percent) of the votes for president.
1.7.17.6.2.1. Con: Which would equal the bottom 22 populace states \(and DC\). Combine Connecticut, Iowa, Mississippi, Arkansas, Utah, Kansas, Nevada, New Mexico, Nebraska, West Virginia, Idaho, Hawaii, Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Montana, Delaware, South Dakota, Alaska, North Dakota, District of Columbia, Vermont, and Wyoming and you have the same rough 12% of the country \(or 39 million people\). And not that area matters, but those states make 49% of the country while CA is only 4% [enchantedlearning.com](http://www.enchantedlearning.com/usa/states/population.shtml)
1.7.17.6.2.2. Con: Even with only 12% of the votes, as a state, California would be able to exert significantly more influence over smaller states than it does presently.
1.7.17.6.2.2.1. Pro: In 9 of the last 10 [presidential elections](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_United_States_presidential_elections_by_popular_vote_margin), the margin of victory in the popular vote was less than 10 percentage points, Reagan's 2nd election being the exception.
1.7.17.6.2.2.2. Con: California wouldn't then, nor does it currently, exert influence over smaller states.
1.7.17.6.2.2.3. Con: About a third of [californians](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politics_of_California) lean republican. Thus during a presidential election the Republican candidate would gain about 4% support from California, as opposed to the 0 electoral votes under the EC and [general ticket](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electoral_College_\(United_States\)#Evolution_to_the_general_ticket).
1.7.17.6.3. Pro: The needs of California voters are not the same as the needs of the voters of other states. A solution popular and workable in California may be totally unsuitable for Virginia, hence the need for the federal system to negate what Madison called the tyranny of the majority.
1.7.17.6.3.1. Con: Even in this case, the tyranny of the majority is still somewhat felt. The U.S. electoral college has a[large gap between states.](https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/electoral-college/allocation.html) Perhaps the way to even this out, is to lessen the gap of states to have, at most, a ten vote difference from the smallest to largest electoral vote states.
1.7.17.7. Con: This might reflect the situation in monolithic countries, but the USA is a federation of 50 such monolithic states - where indeed 1 person equals 1 vote.
1.7.17.7.1. Pro: The electoral college balances the competing interests of one-state-one-vote and one-person-one-vote. Consider an apartment complex that wishes to elect a president of the complex. Should each apartment receive one vote? Or should each person living in an apartment receive one vote? Should the single lady in 4A have more sway than the four-person family in 4B? Or should 4B have more votes than 4A? The electoral college is an inventive mechanism to balance these competing interests.
1.7.17.7.2. Pro: Alternatives such as a national popular vote violate the concept of one-state-one-vote that is fundamental to a multitude of compromises in the US Constitution including the [Great Compromise](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connecticut_Compromise). The US Constitution, particularly in the construction of the electoral college \(EC\), seeks to balance the competing interests of one-person-one-vote and one-state-one-vote. Thus, the EC does not defy the one-person-one-vote concept but rather the EC embraces and weaves it with one-state-one-vote.
1.7.17.7.2.1. Con: The Connecticut Compromise \(aka Great Compromise\) led to the creation of the bicameral house of reps, but required the upper house \(house of delegates\) to be weighted equally among states. It had nothing to do with the electoral college.
1.7.17.7.3. Con: That's the point: Americans today don't want a system where states get to be little nations in the presidential election. It conflicts with the way Americans see themselves: As one nation \(you know, like, "under God, indivisible..."\). This antiquated system treats their fellow citizens as more or less important based on which state they live, and that idea strikes modern Americans as wrong. That sentiment is behind [polls that generally show opposition to the EC.](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2016/11/24/13731770/electoral-college-poll) Our elections need to catch up.
1.7.17.8. Pro: The electoral college is not proportional to the actual populations of states anymore. So although a state may only have 3 electoral votes, the amount of voters in the state per electoral vote is way less than in high population states, thus, those voters are disproportionately powerful.
1.7.17.8.1. Pro: Furthermore, those states are for the most part, dependent on larger states for aide, yet harbor a hatred for said large states.  Leads us to where we are now. Get rid of it, let New York and California lead.
1.7.17.9. Pro: -> See 1.7.17.3.5.
1.7.17.10. Con: The electoral college may unfairly weight votes, but this has no relevance to the fairness of the outcomes. If all States voted unanimously, the outcome would have to be called fair regardless of how weight is distributed.
1.7.18. Con: Over 91% of presidential elections have resulted in "fair" outcomes where the President won both the electoral college and the popular vote. 
[53](https://www.factcheck.org/2008/03/presidents-winning-without-popular-vote/)/[58](https://www.factcheck.org/2008/03/presidents-winning-without-popular-vote/)
1.7.18.1. Con: Without the electoral college, there would be a "fair" outcome 100% of the time \(Whoever wins the popular vote becomes the president.\)
1.7.18.2. Con: Which means that 9% of American presidents were voted into office unfairly.
1.7.19. Pro: -> See 1.1.2.4.
1.7.20. Pro: The electoral college protects the interests of one particular minority \(residents of smaller states\). There are myriad other minorities who do not receive preferential levels of influence over the general election. There's no logic for why this particular special interest group should receive such preferential treatment.
1.7.20.1. Con: The logic is that, without this protection, a few large states will completely dominate US politics to the detriment of small states and their residents.   That's specifically why the founders put this system in place.
1.8. Pro: -> See 1.7.12.2.18.4.1.1.
1.9. Con: The electoral college should be reformed, rather than abolished.
1.9.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.
1.9.2. Con: Given the condition of the Electoral College, the reforms it needs would be practically identical to abolishing it and replacing it with a more just system.
1.9.3. Pro: The perceived problems of the Electoral College are self-inflected. A basic element of the formula created in the Constitution was trampled on in 1929 when Congress, by statute, limited the number of representatives in the House to 435. This is where the inequality has been inserted into the process. We should return to the Constitutional provision of the number of citizens per representatives.
1.9.4. Pro: The electoral college could be reformed by having all states use proportional representation rather than "winner takes all," eliminating the disproportionate impact of a small number of swing states.
1.9.4.1. Con: States decide their own allocation of electors, so any state that switches from winner-takes-all to proportional representation will be disadvantaging  itself. Any such reform would have to be an interstate pact or federal law.
1.9.4.1.1. Pro: Electors are allocated by state legislatures, which are controlled by the majority party. If a state legislature changes their state to proportional vote, the majority party is hurting its own chances in the national election.
1.9.4.2. Con: This reform would still leave voters in underpopulated states valued higher than those in overpopulated states.
1.9.4.3. Con: The only way for the "electoral college" \(a term not found in the U.S. Constitution\) to be reformed is with the [National Popular Vote Interstate Compact](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Popular_Vote_Interstate_Compact). Passage of that compact by a sufficient number of states \(with total electoral votes exceeding 269\) will make the electoral college superfluous.
[nationalpopularvote.com](http://www.nationalpopularvote.com/)
1.9.4.3.1. Con: The electoral college is mentioned in the constitution \([article 2 section 1 of the preamble](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Article_Two_of_the_United_States_Constitution#Section_1:_President_and_Vice_President)\), and in the [12th amendment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twelfth_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution), which reformed the electoral college procedure.
1.9.5. Pro: The electoral college could be indirectly reformed by adding seats to the House of Representatives, since the number of electors a state has is equal to the number of senators and representatives it has.
1.9.5.1. Pro: Denmark has a representative for every 31,000 people and has 8 parties. UK has one per 100,000 and has 3 main parties. US electoral college has one per 600,000 people and only has only 2 parties.
1.9.5.2. Pro: The skew of the electoral college stems from the arbitrary limit placed on the House of Representatives in the Constitution. Rather than abolishing the electoral college, we should reform the House of Representatives to restore its initially intended equal representation.
1.9.5.3. Pro: Increasing the size of the House by adding about 500 seats and repealing the 17th Amendment would restore the Electoral College to its originally intended role in presidential elections. The EC preserves federalism by applying the Great Compromise of 1787 to presidential elections. The completely arbitrary cap on the House at 435 and the popular election of senators has distorted the original purpose of the EC - to translate the Great Comprise to presidential elections.
1.9.5.4. Con: This could possibly change the math of which states matter, but unless you increase it by a wild amount, you don't change the fact that some states matter and others don't, nor do you change the risk of losing the popular vote and winning the electoral college.
1.9.5.5. Con: With population growth expected, this math becomes arduous at best and less representative at worst.
1.9.6. Con: Reforming the electoral college in any way - a traditional institution that has been virtually unaltered since its conception centuries ago - undermines the security and stability of function of every other such institution in the USA.
1.9.6.1. Con: I don't think that we should be prioritizing stability over improvement. If changing one system for the better leads to changing many systems for the better, then how is that a negative thing? \(It's not\)
1.9.6.2. Con: Abolishing the electoral college would be similarly destabilizing.
1.9.7. Pro: The electoral college is a fine system implemented poorly. Instead of having a small number of informed, citizens voting for the executive office, each state instead allows the popular vote to decide which team's electoral voters are advanced. Reformation can be made by using a merit-based candidate pool of voters and, perhaps, random selection of those voters, similar to the selection of a jury.
1.9.8. Pro: To eliminate the electoral college, you would need to have a Constitutional Convention, which makes the process of elimination very complicated and difficult. It is preferable to focus on state level changes to rules each state gives to their electoral voters.
1.9.9. Con: The abolition/reform of the electoral college, like all foundational changes to our country's constitution, should be done from a point of national unity, not division. A constitutional convention or amendment initiative at this time would divide our already polarized system even more.
1.9.9.1. Con: The US is unlikely to become less polarized in the foreseeable future.
1.9.9.2. Con: The electoral college is a source of disunity. Those who favor it must disregard the moral right of each citizen to equal political power in our government. Thus, they embrace tribalism. This creates justified indignation on the part of those whose equal rights are denied. The path to unity is to embrace each individual's moral right to equal political power, thereby rejecting the tribalism that divides us. When we embrace those rights, we will want to eliminate the Electoral College.
1.9.10. Pro: A democracy should strive for proportional representation of its electors. Allocating electors proportionally to the population of each state would help ensure proportional representation.
1.9.10.1. Pro: Using [proportional popular vote](https://www.tremr.com/Wolfe2018/proportional-popular-vote) and [ranked choice voting](http://www.fairvote.org/rcv#rcvbenefits) would make the electoral college more representative.
1.9.10.2. Con: If the electoral college just represents the popular vote, then why even have it? If a proportionally accurate vote count is the most democratic system possible, then just use the popular vote.
1.9.10.3. Con: Democracies usually devolve into totalitarian states, which makes it critically important that we maintain our republican processes.
1.9.10.3.1. Con: This is a claim that has no supporting citations, nor does it clarify what is meant by 'democracy', as there can be variant definitions.
1.9.10.4. Con: -> See 1.7.15.3.1.
1.10. Pro: Most arguments by advocates of keeping the electoral college are ultimately just rationalizations of an unfair system because it happens to benefit them.
1.10.1. Con: That is an unfair assumption of the internal logic of others. One could, with at least as much basis, argue that arguments by advocates of eliminating the electoral college are only rationalizations to change the system such that it benefits them.
1.10.2. Con: Most arguments against the Electoral College over-emphasize the importance of the Presidency. The Executive is one of three branches of a limited Federal Government.
1.10.3. Con: This is nothing short of pure ad hominem of proponents of a traditional system set in place since the foundation of America.
1.10.4. Pro: Republican support for replacing the electoral college with a popular vote [dropped sharply](http://news.gallup.com/poll/198917/americans-support-electoral-college-rises-sharply.aspx) from 54% to 19% after Trump won the 2016 election while losing the popular vote.
1.10.4.1. Con: And if you look at an electoral college map, you will see why. Very few states voted for Hillary.
This is the United States, not the "mob rules" of America.
1.10.4.1.1. Con: People living in more populated states have less of say in politics due to the place that they were born in
1.10.5. Pro: Donald Trump said the [electoral college is a "disaster"](https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/266038556504494082?lang=en) when he thought it might help Obama win, but then [called it "genius"](https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/798521053551140864?lang=en) after it enabled him to win despite losing the popular vote.
1.10.6. Pro: After the electoral college enabled Bush to win the presidency in 2000, despite losing the popular vote, support for replacing the electoral college with a popular vote [decreased ​among Republicans from ​62% to 44%](http://archive.fairvote.org/electoral_college/Gallup_Polls.pdf).
1.10.6.1. Pro: It also increased amongst Democrats.  Showing that they want to change to a system that will guarantee them more wins
1.10.7. Con: The underlying motivations behind arguments for the electoral college are irrelevant to the actual factual merit of those arguments.
1.10.8. Con: Criticism of the electoral college primarily stems from disagreement with the 2016 election, which does not justify abolishing the system.
1.10.8.1. Pro: Most arguments by opponents of the EC are ultimately just rationalizations of changing to a system that happens to benefit them.
1.10.8.2. Con: While that is not entirely true, it would not be a problem even if it is true. When a system fails it provides the evidence and rationale for fixing it. I cannot imagine an engineer who has a machine fail say "oh, it was just that one time. Let's not worry about the future." When the space shuttle blew up because the O-ring failed or the foam knocked off heat tile NASA not only re-egineered those particular parts but altered their entire management approach. Are elections less important?
1.10.8.3. Pro: There was public outcry about the problems with the electoral college because of the last election's results, but these problems go largely ignored when Democrats win.
1.10.8.3.1. Con: Republicans should be just as concerned as Democrats. In 2004, a shift of about 70,000 votes in Ohio would have put Kerry in the White House, with 276 electoral votes, while Bush would have had about 3,000,000 more popular votes.
1.10.8.3.2. Con: It is not as serious of an issue "when Dems win" because Dems have never won the presidency while also losing the popular vote. On the contrary, all 5 of the 5 presidential candidates who have won the popular vote but lost the electoral college [vote have been democrats](https://www.benzinga.com/general/education/16/12/8776577/every-president-who-won-the-election-but-lost-the-popular-vote).
1.10.8.4. Con: [There was bipartisan support for reform of the electoral college before the 2016 election](http://news.gallup.com/poll/198917/americans-support-electoral-college-rises-sharply.aspx); it is not as if the support for reforming the electoral college is just based on the previous election's results.
1.11. Pro: The electoral college discriminates against smaller parties participating in the selection of the President, perpetuating a two-party system.
1.11.1. Con: It is primarily the fact that most \(48\) states award their electoral vote winner-takes-all \(vice proportionally\) that disadvantages smaller parties, not the electoral college itself. This [site](https://politics.stackexchange.com/questions/13319/who-would-have-won-the-presidency-if-all-states-electors-were-allocated-proport?utm_medium=organic&utm_source=google_rich_qa&utm_campaign=google_rich_qa) calculates that, if various proportional allocation methods were used, 3rd party candidates would have received more electoral votes than they did. These various options also all produce a closer result and better match state voting.
1.11.1.1. Con: If states moved to a proportional system for awarding of EC votes, frequently no candidate would receive the absolute majority required in the Electoral College.  

This would throw more elections to the House for resolution of the Presidency and the Senate for the Vice Presidency.

On the surface this might seem more proporional, as the House is elected based on population. But when selecting a President, each state's House delegation gets an equal, single, vote making it far less proportional.
1.11.1.2. Con: Looking historically, the majoity requirement within the EC itself is more detrimental to small parties. People selecting electors from fringe parties risk throwing the Presidental election to the House, where each state receives a single, equal vote, leading to an even less democratic result.
1.11.2. Con: The electoral college does not discriminate based on political party, but on location.
1.11.3. Pro: The EC grants 1 vote per elector, and requires a majority to determine a winner.  This is known as First Past the Post election.

Apprehension to handing the election over to the House of Representatives if a majority is not achieved naturally drives voters to limiting elections choices.  A liberal is more likely to choose an inferior candidate to ensure 'some' liberal is elected.

Adopting an alternative like Run-Off voting with direct election is the only way to expand choices.
1.11.4. Con: Other features of American politics cause the entrenchment of the two-party system, not the electoral college.
1.11.4.1. Pro: It is not the electoral college that produces a two-party system in America. According to [Duverger's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duverger%27s_law), it is the winner-take-all character of democracy that accounts for the two-party system. In fact, proportional democracies tend to be multiparty systems, and winner-take-all systems are typically two-party systems.
1.11.4.1.1. Con: By being 'winner-take-all' the electoral college reinforces the two party system in the US.
1.11.4.1.2. Con: Canada's winner-take-all system is at least tri-partisan.
1.11.4.1.3. Pro: The winner-takes-all laws that have been passed in [most states](http://www.irpe.org/sites/default/files/history-of-winner-take-all-v7-2017-4-22.pdf) are what eliminate third parties.
1.11.4.2. Pro: In 2016, the campaign kicked off with [nearly 20 candidates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republican_Party_presidential_candidates,_2016) vying for the Republican ticket. The electoral college did nothing to prevent this.
1.11.4.2.1. Con: The electoral college has no influence on primaries because it is a factor only in the general election. Perhaps some reform to party primaries in imitation of the electoral college would reduce the number of candidates for the party nomination; for example, if state straw poll results provided party "electors" empowered to select participants in the televised debates, perhaps that system would have narrowed the pool of Republican candidates for the nomination.
1.11.4.3. Pro: Other factors, such as the expense and effort of a campaign, limit the number of candidates far more than the electoral college and would not be eliminated by removing the electoral college.
1.11.4.3.1. Con: Expense does not limit the number of candidates. It is the winner take all structure that forces coalitions to form before the election rather than after as in parliamentary systems.
1.11.4.3.2. Con: There are already many candidates for President each year. 1,779 candidates filed [statements for candidacy](http://classic.fec.gov/data/Form2Filer.do?format=html) for President in the 2016 election cycle. We only hear about the major ones, and there's no reason that filter would change if reforms were made to the electoral college system.
1.11.5. Pro: [FPTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-past-the-post_voting) \(which perpetuates a two party system\) is employed by the electoral college. It is used both on the national level for counting EC votes, and on the state level \(in almost all states\) for determining the allocation of a state's EC votes.
1.11.6. Con: A two-party system is not inherently bad.
1.11.6.1. Con: Two-party systems lead to increased polarization and vilification of people with opposing political viewpoints.
1.11.6.1.1. Con: Bitter, divisive politics are not inherent features of two-party systems; plenty of other factors play into this, and as a result, divisive politics can occur in countries which have multi-party systems as well. Examples of such factors include distrust among the populace \(e.g. along class/race/geography lines\), government design which fails to effectively balance power among government branches, social norms which vilify cooperation, lack of honest/moral media, etc.
1.11.6.1.2. Pro: In a two-party system, all political sentiments are channeled towards opposing the other party, rather than elevating one's own party above all others, as would be the case in a multi-party system.
1.11.6.2. Pro: Under a popular vote, the US would be swamped with candidates. Every group with an ideological or major policy interest would field a candidate, hoping that their candidate would win a plurality and become the President.
1.11.6.2.1. Con: -> See 1.11.4.3.2.
1.11.6.2.2. Con: Every group with an ideological or major policy interest fielding a candidate would be a good development, not a bad one.
1.11.6.2.3. Con: The possibility of many more candidates suddenly running is not possible in the way you describe. Candidates for president might get approval in their own state to run, and therefore will be on that ballot, but they need to pass certain requirements to be able to run state by state before they are allowed on that state's ballot.
1.11.6.2.4. Pro: Having a large number of candidates means there is a lot of media focus given to people who are unlikely to become president. This takes time away from important policy debates and the candidates that are more realistic possibilities.
1.11.6.2.4.1. Con: There is little discussion of policy in the electoral college system as currently constituted. For example, the Big 3 networks gave [32 minutes](http://tyndallreport.com/comment/20/5778/) of airtime to policy issues in 2016. With such a low baseline, it's unlikely removing the electoral college could lower issue coverage by a consequential amount.
1.11.6.2.5. Con: Under a free society we should encourage more candidates to participate. There is no optimum or ideal number of candidates.
1.11.6.3. Con: A two-party system, as entrenched as ours is, leads to division and the ability for the two parties to completely put all government movement on hold if they choose to.
1.11.6.4. Con: Competition in America keeps businesses trying harder which results in better products, service & demands constant innovation or your business will gradually die. Our 2 parties have taken turns lying to us, getting too little done & rarely working together for US! Often forgetting their "customers" soon after the sale. Give me more choices.
1.11.6.5. Pro: The two party system causes both parties to vie for "the center" of the electorate, forcing each party to moderate and converge over time. If a party fails to moderate \(i.e. it is too far left or right\), it will lose the presidential election, and moderates within the party will be empowered. This holds despite political polarization.
1.11.6.6. Pro: Parties enable ideological branding in a confusing marketplace of ideas. Although it may be better for two-party systems to allow more ideological leniency rather than dogmatism, they still help to brand ideas \(e.g. "smaller government," "social justice"\) such that the overall brand can be evaluated, rather than each individual idea.
1.12. Con: -> See 1.7.12.2.