Discussion Title: Should people with pre-existing conditions pay more to be insured?

1. Should people with pre-existing conditions pay more to be insured?
1.1. Con: Denying people health insurance for pre-existing conditions is unconstitutional.
1.1.1. Pro: The United States has civil rights laws that state that there must be equal access and equal rights for those with disabilities and health issues.
1.1.1.1. Con: As private insurance companies are also legally entitled to seek profit, the state should be the one responsible for providing those rights.
1.2. Pro: States could step in to recreate high risk pools to help those with pre-existing conditions get covered
1.2.1. Con: If policy redistributes the high risk to the state, by definition a smaller pool will have higher volatility. Shifting to states simply shifts the burden to the state taxpayer general fund rather than the national health risk pool so it is a shell game with less incentive for improvement.
1.2.2. Con: People with pre-existing conditions will have to pay much more. The unhealthiest people \(those with cancer, or that need an organ transplant\) will have to pay A LOT more - to the point where it will be unaffordable
1.3. Con: Insurances would charge them the expected amount that they would have to pay for treatment, so an insurance covering their born-with illness would not make financial sense and thus people would never insure for anything related to their born-with illness or be completely uninsured.
1.4. Con: Life for people born with an illness would be even less fair than it already is, if they had the additional disadvantage of having to pay more for healthcare.
1.5. Pro: Health insurance will be more affordable for those without pre-existing conditions
1.6. Con: Insurers will go back to the days of underwriting, and people will have to fill out long applications to get insurance
1.7. Pro: More healthy people will opt to buy insurance, improving the risk pool
1.7.1. Con: As was evident before the mandate in the ACA, healthy people more often then not, did not buy health insurance. That trend may not change as it is a mindset, they think that they do not need it.
1.7.2. Con: Healthy people may not buy insurance because they perceive it as unnecessary, and thus that may not change by making variations to the risk pool.
1.7.2.1. Pro: Costs, covers, difficulty at finding the right one and general lack of awareness make people [not buy](http://www.healthcarefinancenews.com/blog/top-8-reasons-single-people-don%E2%80%99t-buy-health-insurance) health insurance.
1.7.2.2. Con: If cost is one of the main reasons they don't buy insurance, that could be reduced by a healthier pool, thus making more healthy people buying it.
1.8. Con: People who can't afford insurance may get care anyway, increasing the amount of bad debt at hospitals
1.9. Con: Children who are born with illness will be unable to afford insurance their entire lives.
1.10. Con: This doesn't solve the primary cause of high health insurance rates - the price of health care.