Discussion Title: Should governments provide a universal basic income?

1. Governments should provide a universal basic income.
1.1. Con: The government should not provide a UBI because it is immoral to do so.
1.1.1. Con: Providing a UBI is neither immoral nor coercion. It is simply a redistribution of wealth as is tax and welfare. Further there is no reason to deal in absolutes. Participation may be volutentary or dependent on other means.
1.1.1.1. Con: Redistribution of wealth is taking one persons property without consent \(theft\) and giving it to someone else. This is done under threat of force, which is immoral. The morality of an act does not change simply because people vote in favor of it. To put it plainly, if you find it immoral to steal a sandwich from a man who has 2, to give to a man who has none, then it's also immoral to vote for a group of people to do the same thing.
1.1.1.1.1. Con: A man who has two sandwiches should, in a just world, give one sandwich to the man who has none, so that both may have a sandwich and eat. The examples of the wealthy whose wealth is earned are vanishingly small, and among the mega-rich, completely non-existent. There is no just form of distribution in which one person is worth a million times \(or more\) than another.
1.1.1.1.2. Con: Every state in order to provide its services \(safety, justice, education etc.\) has to use financial and physical threat \(i.e. police\). If enforcing law is immoral, then anarchy is the only morally good system.
1.1.2. Pro: In order to pay for a UBI a group of people in a society \(the government\) must coerce another group of people \(the taxpayer/citizen\) by threat of force \(laws/statutes\) to give their money they earned to the government so they can redistribute it among another group of people \(recipients of the UBI\) that have not earned it. This is theft morally speaking because it is not right to take from someone something they have earned.
1.1.2.1. Con: Participating in a society necessitates sharing of resources in order to support those members who are unable to support themselves. This is not theft; it is the basis of reciprocation, meaning that you share because one day you may need people to share with you.
1.1.2.1.1. Con: This is akin to socialism, which has never been a sustainable concept.
1.1.2.2. Con: To accept this would not only make tax and welfare unethical, but literally every other function of the government as well.
1.1.2.3. Con: Unlike general taxation which is decided by governments, the money of taxes paid to maintain UBI is invested in whatever each one decides.
1.2. Con: Many governments cannot realistically afford to provide a UBI.
1.2.1. Pro: It is clear, by the current situation of the world economy, that only a few countries have the potential to provide such a system. This would generate massive immigration to this countries with a lot of people unqualified for any work with need of high education wanting to move there from poor countries. This will increase the borders security costs, the overall social systems costs and ultimately collapse the UBI systems.
1.2.2. Pro: Providing a UBI would be so expensive that it would significantly reduce the number of services that the government could provide.
1.2.2.1. Con: The money isn't appearing out of thin air, merely being redistributed. An increase in citizenry is simply an increase in productive capacity and therefore redistributable money.
1.2.3. Con: Just because some governments can't afford it doesn't mean that governments that can afford it shouldn't do it, or that government's that can't afford it shouldn't make it a goal.
1.2.4. Con: UBI directly stimulates consumer demand capacity, which increases business turnover. Give money to people, and they will reliably spend it quickly. This has a multiplier effect that will recoup most of the cost in taxes and productivity gains.
1.2.4.1. Pro: The 2007 economic stimulus package \(of which cash handouts were a key component\) in Australia was [a huge success](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2017/aug/04/ten-years-on-voters-say-labors-52bn-stimulus-saved-australia-from-recession) with large economic benefits.
1.2.4.2. Con: In our global economy, people don't necessarily spend their income domestically.
1.2.4.2.1. Con: No one is buying their daily food or acquiring their housing from foreign sources.
1.2.5. Con: In the USA, we could easily pay for UBI by cutting a bloated defense budget and increasing tax on the wealthiest Americans. The benefits to peace of mind and health of our citizens would far outweigh those small costs.
1.2.6. Con: Advancements in AI and Robotics would increase productivity as robots can work more efficiently and cheaper than a human and they can work longer times, too. The fact that would increase the income/GDP and allows governments to pay UBI.
1.2.7. Con: All governments can choose to afford a UBI especially if based on tax revenue per capita with additional payments for beneficial work like reversing climate change, improving health and life chances.
1.2.7.1. Pro: Most governments choose to spend money on subsidizing businesses so they pay lower rate of tax than individuals and on declared income after deducting costs including on mis-selling eg by implying \(with images\) that you need to have this product in order to get a mate or to succeed compared with turnover.
1.2.7.2. Pro: When people have more money they have more ability to buy the services they want from businesses; or government \(when economies of scale off sets bureaucratic costs\) or from the voluntary sector so increases demand and thus GDP.
1.2.8. Pro: Government produces nothing, it is not a brand name. It only seeks to control wealth "economy" through taxation and legislation. All governments represent a minority of the population... "the many ruled by the few who pledge fealty to the one". No government can afford to maintain an indefinite universal welfare system.
1.2.8.1. Con: Democratic societies by definition represent most people, not a minority.
1.2.8.2. Con: Efficient governments provide public services, public infrastructure, highways, airports, ports, navigability rivers, railways, urban development, schools, health systems among others and in a democracy, that is the request of a nation: to empower a government to accomplish this assignment.
1.2.9. Pro: No country has yet made a UBI work. It may not be possible in the majority of economies.
1.2.9.1. Con: No country has tried.
1.2.9.1.1. Con: There have been several attempts to do so, see Speenhamland System and multiple other more localized and restricted attempts. All attempts either failed or were limited to the point they were not in any way "Universal".
1.2.9.1.2. Pro: All proposed models for a UBI have only partially been proven to work when being carefully limited in scope and research as well as historic examples exists pointing to it escalating economic crisis rather than dampening it when being applied universally. \([Speenhamland System\)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speenhamland_system)
1.2.9.1.2.1. Con: The failure of the Speenhamland system was that poor people were thriving and having families; these were deemed undesirable outcomes by the system's managers. That the poor were not suffering and their population kept in check was the aim of the Speenhamland system, and its failure and cancellation is a moral failure of its administrators, not a systematic failure of UBI.
1.2.9.1.2.1.1. Con: While this is one point of criticism from its time, the "failure" as written in the previous statement is in regards to a modern day assessment taking into account the poor staying poor and the wages just adapting downwards.
1.2.9.1.2.1.1.1. Con: Minimum wage laws will prevent wages decreasing.
1.2.9.1.2.2. Pro: In the Speenhamland System the distribution of wealth did not improve for the poor. Wages were adapted downwards and the payout had to be increased regularly to keep up with inflation and avoid violent outbreaks.
1.2.10. Pro: Governments with large debts and large spending deficits should not provide a universal basic income.
1.2.10.1. Con: Governments are not households; national debt and deficit do not work for governments in the same way they work for individuals. In most cases, deficit and debt to invest in people pays far greater dividends than austerity.
1.2.10.1.1. Con: Only works if the suggested model is sound and does not lead to massive devaluation of money.
1.2.11. Con: Considering the wealth extracted from African colonies \(still!\), these countries could be stabilized \(to our own advantage\) with a UBI kick-started or supported by the Western colonizers at a fraction of the wealth extracted.
1.2.12. Con: Scarcity cannot be the problem since UBI is only a form of redistribution \(toward a minimum income / less disparity\). Disparity is generally considered too high as it is.
1.2.13. Pro: Governments quite simply cannot afford it. Contrary to popular belief, we are not living in a post [scarcity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scarcity) world. Especially if governments fail to be extremely protective of which people are allowed to be citizens and which people reproduce, UBI is fundamentally unsustainable.
1.2.13.1. Con: -> See 1.2.2.1.
1.2.14. Con: We have no way of knowing the intended cost of this program because it currently doesn't exist.
1.2.14.1. Con: We can know the cost of a UBI. We just have to multiply the cost per person with the total population of that country, then remove from this whatever the current social protection system pays.
1.2.15. Con: UBI is the most effective, least bureaucratic and therefore cheapest to solution to put an end to poverty once and for all. Every penny for social security that is saved from bureaucracy can end up with the people that need it the most. More on this: [joop.vara.nl](https://joop.vara.nl/opinies/vrij-van-controledrift-bureaucratie-en-armoede-met-een-basisinkomen)
1.2.15.1. Con: Concentrating spending on those who actually need it will always be more effective than spending without regards to actual need. For any finite amount of money maximum effect will only be achieved if it is spent exactly where it is needed. Obvious tradeoffs with bureaucratic costs have to be made but are not even close to negating the benefit of targetted spending.
1.2.15.1.1. Con: [Incorrect.](http://www.developmentpathways.co.uk/blog/who-really-benefits-from-poverty-targeting-in-social-protection-the-poor-or-the-rich/)
1.2.16. Pro: Providing a UBI will lead to an increase in taxes which means taking more money from those who work and giving it to those who don't, for whatever reason. That is not fair.
1.2.16.1. Con: Folks who work will also be receiving money. That's the reason it's called a "Universal basic income" and not a "Negative Income Tax," a different concept.
1.2.16.1.1. Con: Taxes will have to be raised. For some people \(very few\) the increase in the taxes they pay will exactly offset the UBI handout. About half the people will lose out, and the other half will be the winners. It is a simple redistribution scheme, not fairer or less fair that the welfare state we currently have, which is also a redistribution scheme.
1.2.16.2. Con: Jeff Bezos is the [richest man in the world](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-07-16/happy-prime-day-jeff-amazon-ceo-s-net-worth-tops-150-billion) while his employees work themselves [sometimes literally](https://www.recode.net/2017/11/9/16629412/amazon-warehouse-worker-killed-deaths-osha-fines-penalties) [to death](https://www.businessinsider.com/amazon-warehouse-safety-and-deaths-2018-4) to enrich him. That is not fair.
1.2.16.3. Con: Wages are not distributed fairly already. You likely work for far less than your labour is worth. UBI attempts to correct that.
1.2.16.4. Con: Those who earn \(a lot\) more than the rest are not physically capable of working such a higher percentage "more" than everyone else \(there are only 24 hours in a day\). In the current system many people work long hard hours for little pay and little reward. It is perfectly fair to tax top earners a much higher percentage. Those who don't work are entitled to live a certain standard of living as much as those who do. No one deserves to live in poverty.
1.2.16.4.1. Con: So you would "punish" the people who work hard, make smart choices, grow wealth for their families so that people who don't work can have the same standard of living. No one may "deserve" to live in poverty, but taking money from hard working people and giving it to nonworking people is not the answer.
1.2.16.4.1.1. Con: There is no way of reducing poverty without transfering money from the rich to the poor.
1.2.16.4.1.2. Con: Smart businessmen and rich families being the cause of poverty for others is not fair either.
1.3. Con: There is no way for a dependency upon the State to not degrade into slavery and oppression.
1.3.1. Pro: If citizens are dependent upon government for their income, then the power lies entirely with the State. The State is thus empowered to make whatever rules it desires. The rights of the citizens are thus eliminated, and only a flimsy privilege of income is left behind--and if the State is displeased with a citizen, he or she can be cut off and left to starve.
1.3.1.1. Con: If workers are dependent upon corporations for their income, then the power lies entirely with the corporation. The corporation is thus empowered to make whatever rules it desires. The rights of the workers are thus eliminated, and only a flimsy privilege of income is left behind--and if the corporation is displeased with a worker, he or she can be cut off and left the starve. Main difference: the above is our actual lived reality right now.
1.3.1.1.1. Con: While most citizens \(in western democracies\) depend on a private business for income, the power does not entirely rest with corporations because the government is a check on corporate behavior, workers are free to change jobs, and corporations also need workers to function. However, if everyone depends on their government for income as well as other services, the government does become more powerful over its citizens and everyone looses freedom.
1.3.1.1.2. Con: This statement would hold true if the corporations were all allied and form one single monopolistic entity, so the worker would not find any other potential resource of income elsewhere. But it's not the case. UBI provided by the state only would not bear any sense of competition thus cutting workers from freedom of choice.
1.3.1.1.2.1. Con: Unfortunately for this argument, [corporations do act in collusion against worker's interests](http://fortune.com/2015/09/03/koh-anti-poach-order/).
1.3.1.2. Con: UBI is distributed among all citizens. In such situation, State has no power over individuals \(for the lack of financial incentive\). If the State on the other hand may choose the recipients of money, we are no longer discussing UBI.
1.3.2. Con: Within a democratic State, all people have a voice and a say in the operation of the State; "the State" is not some amorphous, non-identified bogeyman, but merely an apparatus empowered to enact the collective will of the people. A corporation, however, is an autocratic hierarchy in which the worker has no say and no voice. Oppression and slavery are far more likely under an autocratic hierarchy than a democratic State.
1.3.2.1. Con: Corporations may have different organisational structures, not only autocratic and highly hierarchic.
1.3.2.2. Con: In most of developed countries an employee may choose for which company they work, willingly agrees to work conditions, and may change the employer. On the other hand you don't choose your citizenship, laws may be enforced on you without your agreement and if you choose emigration, you loose some of your rights \(you can't vote in another country\).
1.3.2.3. Con: State and corporations have completely different roles, so they are impossible to compare in such a way.
1.3.3. Con: The State is also bound by laws.
1.4. Con: A formal UBI is likely to cause societal problems that outweigh the benefits of such a policy.
1.4.1. Pro: In the US, it essentially already exists by other names. Food stamps, unemployment, welfare + tax exemption for poverty level incomes. The abuses of these are not mitigated by UBI without unwarranted assumptions about specific policy \(TBD\).
1.4.2. Pro: Without a strong national border policy and control, the risk of unintended consequences needs to be addressed. Specifically, free income without robust citizenship control and ID further encourages illegal immigration. History suggests that govt ability to prevent these critical problems is low, making the idea terribly flawed.
1.4.3. Pro: Providing a UBI will cause problems in terms of the workforce as people will no longer have to work.
1.4.3.1. Con: That assumes that people only work because they're motivated by money. Research shows [other things](https://blog.sodexoengage.com/maslow-herzberg-and-pinks-theories-in-the-workplace) play a much stronger role at that, but more importantly, the UBI pilots don't show such an effect [actually happening](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/7/20/15821560/basic-income-critiques-cost-work-negative-income-tax).
1.4.3.2. Con: Work provides many benefits beyond income. Interaction with other people, schedule, innovation, purpose, etc. An idle mind is the devils workshop.
1.4.3.3. Con: UBI provides better incentives to work than conditional unemployment benefits which are subject to [welfare trap](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welfare_trap).
1.4.3.4. Pro: Low productivity jobs will have reduced workforce since major incentives to work will be removed.
1.4.3.4.1. Con: This is a good thing. Low workforce enrollment in these sectors will lead to both increased wages for those workers and, as a result, technological innovation.
1.4.3.4.1.1. Con: This doesn’t address the idea that if all sectors are overtaken with a much higher level of automation then there are fewer places for unskilled workers to go.
1.4.3.4.2. Pro: Because the means of production are still private, a system that increases automation may lead to an increase in income inequality, even accounting for UBI, thereby creating an "allowance state" where the lower class still hold significantly less power than those who own the automation systems.
1.4.3.4.3. Con: Low productivity jobs will not have a reduced workforce. Rather, the workers doing them will have much more bargaining power with their employers: they are no longer dependent on them to survive.
1.4.3.5. Con: In many countries people already don’t have to work and live off welfare. Those who want to work or more accurately participate will do so regardless of a supporting income.
1.4.3.6. Con: There is hardly a labour shortage in most modernised nations.
1.4.3.7. Con: "People won't have to work to live any more!" is actually an argument in favour of UBI, not against it. Work or die is not a sign of civilisation.
1.4.3.8. Con: This is not entirely a bad thing. There is already a lot of underemployment, automation will make it even worse in the future. Without a UBI as a safety net, the consequences could be disasterous.
1.4.3.9. Pro: If a UBI is put in place, those that are working just above the line established may decide to quit their job and rely on the government instead of being a productive member of society.
1.4.3.9.1. Con: This assumes people need jobs to be productive members of society.
1.4.3.10. Pro: Many great inventions and technological advances come from third world countries and are often driven by necessity, or a stronger ambition to escape one's reality than those "better off". A UBI is a good idea on a humanitarian level, but the potential trade-off would be technology and inventions developing at a much slower pace.
1.4.4. Pro: It will give people a sense of entitlement, fostering the belief that, without being a contributing member of society, the government owes them.
1.4.4.1. Pro: We see this right now with welfare and would get even worse if this occurs.
1.4.4.1.1. Con: People contribute to society in ways that our current system does not reward monetarily; this does not make them non-contributing.
1.4.5. Con: Societal problems caused by poverty are way greater. See [health problems](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/313385410_Reducing_health_inequities_Is_universal_basic_income_the_way_forward) and associated costs.
1.4.5.1. Con: It is hard to know to what extent or on what schedule any specific UBI will reduce poverty. The UBI does not add to the supply of goods and services, and wealthier people will still be able to out-bid poorer people for access. \(These goods and services will "inflate" in value\). Until and unless the supply increases to meet the demand, there will surely still be poverty, of roughly the same dimensions, with all its attendant social problems.
1.4.6. Pro: A UBI would reduce the incentive to have a large family, if the money is paid per head of household. It is easier for a head of household to support himself alone, than to provide for a family. This would result in a lower population over time, and less economic potential.
1.4.6.1. Con: No UBI proposed is a per-household model.
1.5. Con: Introducing a UBI will likely mean cutting other welfare programs that are important for people in the most need.
1.5.1. Pro: The cost of providing a UBI will mean other welfare programs will have to be cut, and those who need more support will not get it.
1.5.1.1. Con: This is untrue. Those people can still spend monies from UBI on their needs. Other support systems could also be introduced if required though it would be likely that those with critical needs would have access to other subsidies or support systems \(e.g. discounts for the elderly and students etc.\). This would be driven by market forces as realising a new market for low cost support will arise.
1.5.2. Pro: Support targeted to the 10% who need it can be much more generous per person at a lower overall cost and use technology to avoid any admin burden.
1.5.3. Con: It will be appropriate to cut many of the current welfare programs if a UBI is provided, as it will give people enough money to support themselves when unemployed.
1.5.4. Pro: Welfare cuts should be a prerequisite for UBI. Yet, with US govt as an example, the probability that the overlapping welfare programs will actually go away in order to reap the value of reduced bureaucracy is extremely low. This negates the top line benefit of UBI and only introduces more waste and bureaucracy.
1.5.5. Con: It would be better if we had UBI instead of all the other welfare problems. It would remove complicated bureaucracy, which would lower administrative costs - and those currently working in that bureaucracy could then work in productive jobs.
1.5.6. Pro: If the allotment of UBI will be fixed amounts to the family or adults, it will be insufficient for families over a certain size. If allotment factors in dependents, it will favor large families over small and be perceived as unfair.
1.5.6.1. Con: The allotment size could be geared towards individuals, and bypass the family issue altogether.
1.6. Pro: A UBI is an important safety net and provides people with dignity and freedom to ensure they can always support themselves.
1.6.1. Con: A UBI can disappear for any reason and therefore creates false security and independence.
1.6.1.1. Con: It can disappear in the same sense that anything can disappear. The country could disappear. A war might break out. An asteroid could hit the Earth. But it wouldn't disappear in a day-to-day time frame. If there was a change of government policy, there would be an adjustment period as with any change in policy, so people could protest and the government would be forced to bring it back or develop a reasonable transition plan.
1.6.1.1.1. Con: Those who abuse this system, will be unable to control their life after the collapse even though they were informed months sooner, since they may not have work experience, higher level of education, etc.
1.6.1.2. Pro: Anything can change and often does. As Marx identified, history is an unpacking or unraveling of centralised control; ideas; and economic proficiency.
1.6.1.3. Con: Should we ever achieve UBI, and under the right conditions, it is highly unlikely it would disappear in such a rapid manner as to cause harm. In such a situation that it does, UBI would no longer be a priority and abject survival would be the only goal.
1.6.1.4. Pro: If UBI is implemented, it will collapse, because it is unsustainable. After it collapses, the most vulnerable people will be left without means to support themselves. Everyone would be better off if we implement policies that provide opportunities to all children to learn and eventually participate in economy to the best of their abilities. We would end up with more independent population, more people with jobs and more tax revenue to help those who truly cannot support themselves.
1.6.2. Pro: A UBI will solve the major social issues like poverty, malnutrition, robbery, drug abuse. It will facilitate access to education, health care and transport for every one. This will raise every one's standard of living, reducing their problems. People will spend more time, upgrading their own self, instead of thriving to gain a higher post in the economic world, neglecting their health. With a UBI, a healthier population will contribute for advancements at their own will,producing better results.
1.6.2.1. Con: This is not necessarily true. Sure UBI has the potential for all of this BUT it doesn’t stipulate how or when people use the money. Assuming everyone has their best interests prioritised then yes the statement is correct. However even with current welfare and government assistance there are those who wrecklessely spend any monies they receive on destructive ends.
1.6.3. Pro: Universal is key here. It removes the stigma and levels the moral playing field for people who need it.
1.6.3.1. Pro: A UBI will reduce the stigma of the "Undeserving poor". By providing a universal grant of income, without any judgement or assessment, there can be no question of deserved or undeserved.
1.6.4. Con: UBI will effectively stifle human freedom and rob people of human dignity because a UBI can only be put into practice by coercing the citizen under threat of force to pay for the UBI by tax statutes. Therefore UBI restricts human freedom by coercing people who produce and generate wealth through work. Further, human dignity can only flourish where people are free to support themselves. A UBI denies this to humans by providing for them by means of someone else other than themselves.
1.6.4.1. Con: The best guarantor of individual freedom is other people. We need the people around us to respect our freedom. UBI \(or negative tax, etc.\) helps all people in a society and supports social cohesion. Social cohesion underpins freedom. Keeping a society healthy is not theft, it is enlightened self interest. It is the best chance of keeping individual freedoms. There is only coercion without cohesion. The problem is not the principle, but rather the effective and economically sound implementation.
1.6.5. Con: Everyone should know the problems with UBI and that is money is finite. You can go through it no matter how much you have.
1.6.5.1. Con: There are millions of different "you" tied up in this very reductive perspective. This is a meaningless claim.
1.6.6. Pro: There may be times where it is difficult to find work, and a UBI ensures people do not have to live in poverty when they are unable to work.
1.6.6.1. Pro: UBI compensates for automation and may be necessary in providing income to displaced workers. A UBI also compensates for loss of net jobs in the market.
1.6.6.2. Pro: Contribution-based income as a means of survival is not sustainable. Automation of unskilled/low-skilled labor will soon mean being an able-bodied person willing to work will no longer be enough to "earn" survival. UBI is one approach to solving that problem.
1.6.6.2.1. Con: We aren't currently close to this scenario. Right now the [unemployment rate](https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/LNS14000000) in the US and much of the developed world is as low as it has ever been, and labor force participation is on the rise. In such an environment it can hardly be said that people are close to losing the ability to find a job due to automation.
1.6.6.2.1.1. Con: As detailed by [Inc.com](https://www.inc.com/marcel-schwantes/millennials-studies-say-your-work-future-is-not-looking-too-bright.html), [Gallup analysis](http://news.gallup.com/businessjournal/211799/trends-disrupt-workplace-forever.aspx) of their Work and Education numbers mapped to a [study on susceptibility of jobs to AI replacement](https://www.oxfordmartin.ox.ac.uk/publications/view/1314) concludes that around 47% of jobs have high risk of replacement. 

[Mckinsey](https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/digital-disruption/harnessing-automation-for-a-future-that-works) puts the timeline at 2055, give or take 20 years depending on "various factors, in addition to other economic conditions."

This means possibly as early as 2035, just 17 years off. A shift this big and complex can certainly use at least that much time to plan for.
1.6.6.2.1.2. Con: US [Labor Participation](https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/LNS11300000) statistics are trending down over the past couple of decades and the last few years are at lows last seen in 1977. [Bureau of Labor Statistics](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/ecopro.nr0.htm) projects a further decline to 61 percent by 2026.
1.6.6.2.1.2.1. Con: Most of this decrease is due to aging population. Looking at [labor-force participation of the prime-age workforce](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/LNU01300060) tells a different story.
1.6.6.2.1.2.1.1. Con: These posted statistics show a decline in prime-age labour participation since 2000, directly contradicting this claim.
1.6.6.3. Con: Other existing programs, such as unemployment insurance, offer far more targeted benefits to people in this situation.
1.6.6.3.1. Con: Most often, unemployment insurance programs are restrictive and conditional to various criterion.
1.6.6.3.2. Con: Unemployment programs are often offered to people who have already worked a certain amount of time. It excludes, for example, housewives or graduate students.
1.6.7. Con: The fact that society have to shelter those less fortunate doesn't mean that it should be done through the UBI, as providing this assistance gives people who don't produce the right of social mobility they don't deserve. We could perfectly provide other means of personal subsistence which is accompanied of a kind social stigma which would compel them to being productive, attaining the dignity they seek.
1.6.7.1. Con: People have value beyond production.
1.6.8. Con: UBI will result in the same thing as raising minimum wage, inflation of prices. More products will be bought indicating to businesses the demand is going up and therefore increase prices. Then we are back to square one with the poor remaining poor. Except now we have an immoral version of theft built into the government.
1.6.9. Con: If the government currency has runaway inflation, the UBI will not allow people to support themselves.
1.6.9.1. Con: This is true of both the free market and other government programs. Hyperinflation, in addition to being very rare, is its own issue and would be neither solved nor exacerbated by a UBI.
1.6.10. Pro: Money is a made up concept that we use for trade, but has the potential to be used for oppression. UBI acts as a hedge against that oppression, by creating a minimum level of money extended to each person as a human right.
1.6.11. Pro: It is unfair that criminals receive free room and board via prison, while people who work for a living while following the law have no such guarantee.
1.6.11.1. Con: Maybe the problem is that governments provide such an easy life in prison. And because prison in many countries does not simulate normal life, a lot of convicts get disconnected with the outside world and cannot rejoin society. It is possible that in fact the solution would be to incentivise the prisoners to be productive members of society even when in prison so that we can reduce the effort that is required to maintain the prison system.
1.6.11.2. Con: You can't equate imprisonment with the free world. In prison you are not free. You have given up many rights and potentially forever marked as sub human or a potential threat. Society has chosen to rehabilitate prisoners and to keep them locked up to make society feel safer from them. However, in the real world, we are capable of achieving success levels through education or physical accomplishments. We are not permanently rationed  and can exceed expectations and norms.
1.7. Con: Rather than UBI a [Negative Income Tax \(NIT\)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Negative_income_tax) is more implementable within current structures, will limit issues as it still incentivises work-to-earn while maintaining its key benefits.
1.7.1. Con: A NIT scheme is administratively more complex than UBI
1.7.1.1. Con: While NIT in principle is administratively more complex, since it requires information about income, in practice this is not true. Most UBI proposals have argued in favor of progressive taxation along with UBI. Since the bureaucratic infrastructure required to administer income taxation can double to administer NIT or UBI, there is no significant difference in administration as long as income taxes are collected.
1.7.2. Con: Distribution of funds for NIT occurs only once a year after tax returns are processed. This will undermine some of the issues that people want to address with a NIT or UBI.
1.7.2.1. Con: This argument only applies on the assumption that taxes are handled by bureaucratic infrastructure on a per year basis rather than a digital banking platform. It is possible to implement NIT using bank-reported earnings on a weekly or monthly basis. Plenty of technical solutions exist for this problem.
1.7.3. Pro: With NIT politicians can still fiddle with tax rates as well as the deductions to be included/excluded in the threshold and this will allow them to still drive different political agendas and budget aims.
1.7.4. Con: Topping up income with tax credits is a bad idea as it rewards those businesses that pay their workers less than a living wage because businesses pay lower rates of tax than workers and tax credits are funded from all tax payers not just the employer.
1.7.5. Pro: A Negative Income Tax can be afforded by most countries using the formula \(Tax Paid/Received\) = Rate*\(Income - Median Income\), providing a baseline income of Rate*Median Income. Such a formula is a direct tax on income inequality, and since all economies have income inequality, the mean income is greater than the median income, resulting in net positive income in every case. In the case of the US, this is enough to run the government at least at 5-10% of GDP for moderate rates \(e.g. 20%\).
1.8. Con: A UBI can lead to severe economic problems.
1.8.1. Pro: UBI, by providing income indiscriminately, empowers those who make the worst decisions to have an economic impact which they otherwise would not. This distorts the market by incentivizing entrepreneurs to offer products which appeal to the worst decision-makers. Without the UBI, those people would be poor and have far less societal influence.
1.8.1.1. Con: This is making the assumption that the current system incentivizes the creation of efficient services and products. There are a lot of [negative externalities](http://www.ase.tufts.edu/gdae/education_materials/modules/Environmental_Justice.pdf) in the current system that lead to the creation of some pretty wasteful products.
1.8.1.2. Con: This assumes that poorer individuals are "worse decision makers," and are not simply poor for unrelated issues like expensive health issues, family situation, or disability.
1.8.1.3. Con: Income is a function of supply and demand and location; it has far less to do with good/bad-decision making. If there was a demand for a toxic product, it would still be wiser to not produce dangerous products, in spite the fact, that you could make millions with it.
1.8.2. Con: There is no reason that the introduction of a UBI has to lead to inflation.
1.8.2.1. Pro: That follows the assumption that UBI would be funded by creating new money. Most of the ideas about funding UBI [do not involve creating new money](https://ellenbrown.com/2017/10/03/how-to-fund-a-universal-basic-income-without-increasing-taxes-or-inflation/).
1.8.2.2. Pro: UBI is merely a simplification of social security, not necessarily an increase of money in society, like quantitative easing. Moreover, UBI could replace quantitative easing in the form of [Quantitative Easing for the People](http://www.qe4people.eu/). Unless UBI is combined with printing extra money, there is no reason for it to lead to inflation.
1.8.2.3. Pro: Inflation occurs when the money supply expands faster than the economy. Like all spending, UBI can never cause inflation itself: it's where the money comes from that can.
1.8.2.4. Con: Universal Basic Income would have the same impact on the economy that federally subsidized loans had on college tuition. Since 1980 \(when federally subsidized loans became readily available\), college tuition has increased ~260% while all other goods has increased ~120% \([businessinsider.com](https://www.businessinsider.com/this-chart-shows-how-quickly-college-tuition-has-skyrocketed-since-1980-2015-7)\). UBI would have a similar impact on the cost of goods.
1.8.2.5. Con: Depending on the financing of the UBI \(especially for VAT based systems\) hyper inflation is almost guaranteed. The savings quota \(the amount of money not being spent, and mostly a privilege of the not poor\) pushes a percentage of money out of the cycle that can only be recovered by decreasing the value of money.
1.8.3. Con: UBI and inflation are mutually exclusive. Introduction of UBI would cause a shift in the supply of monies and likely a shift in the demand for goods. Individuals relative position would change according to their current and future situation in line with the value of monies granted by UBI.
1.8.3.1. Con: UBI and inflation are not mutually exclusive. One is a form of redirection of wealth the other a devaluation of the form wealth is expressed. Barring drastic measures like total centralisation of all production and complete removal of the free market hyper inflation is the only possible outcome of some UBI systems.
1.8.3.2. Con: "Too many dollars chasing too few goods" is a common shorthand explanation for inflation. If you transfer wealth from one group to another and everyone desires the same goods, you will have more dollars "chasing" those goods, and the price of those goods will "inflate", even though you have not actually changed the size of the overall money supply. This will persist until and unless the supply expands to meet the additional demand.
1.8.4. Pro: The premise is a mathematical economic perversity which becomes compensated with rising prices to again restore natural economic equilibrium.
1.8.4.1. Con: There is no evidence to support this claim, and, in fact, [evidence](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/9/20/16256240/mexico-cash-transfer-inflation-basic-income) to refute it.
1.8.5. Pro: A UBI can only be implemented into our societies, if our tax-systems are completely renewed. Politics has to come up with a money-system that punishes huge savings of billionaires and nourishes local-based transactions. As long as this stays unclear, a UBI is an Utopia, for implementing it could lead to financial crisis.
1.8.5.1. Con: Governments run huge deficit budgets for all sorts of programs and there is nothing particularly special about UBI that necessitates a revamp of the tax code to implement it. Issues with the tax systems exist independent of UBI.
1.8.6. Pro: The UBI is impossible as it is impracticable to distribute more wealth than what is acquired by the government, thus making more coherent the extinction of acquisition.
1.8.6.1. Con: Progressive tax systems exist to ensure that the wealthy, who reap the vast majority of society's benefits for themselves, pay more in taxes than they would receive in a UBI.
1.8.6.1.1. Con: To the poor, specially if the UBI is supposed to be greater than the taxes they pay, this assistance extinguishes the effectiveness of the taxation on them. That said, the taxation of the wealthy few, would be ineffective to sustain the poor majority, or would overburden the rich, discouraging enterprise.
1.8.6.1.1.1. Con: The idea that taxation discourages enterprise is ludicrous and unfounded; it also presumes that "enterprise" and wealth, not health and happiness, are the goals of government and society.
1.8.7. Pro: -> See 1.2.9.1.2.
1.8.8. Con: This could be easily addressed by regulating other factors that contribute to inflation far more, like banking.
1.8.8.1. Pro: Concerns regarding inflation can be addressed by keeping government spending stable, which can be achieved by reducing spending in other sections of the economy, such as corporate welfare.
1.8.8.1.1. Con: Taking even more money out of circulation only speeds up inflation. Every cent spent on a UBI is subject to the savings quota so the higher the UBI the faster money bleeds from the system.
1.8.8.2. Con: The only way to avoid all negative side effects of beneficial UBI is to completely centralize production and abolish the free market. Even then black markets will present as seen in historic examples like the USSR.
1.8.8.3. Con: Banking counters inflation [by policies aimed at modulating the amount of money in circulation](https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/111314/what-methods-can-government-use-control-inflation.asp). Injecting huge amounts of money in the form of UBI is directly counteractive and also far larger than the slight adjustments banking policies produce.
1.8.9. Con: If a UBI leads to more spending power for lower economic classes it increases the demand of products, therefore boosting the economy.
1.8.9.1. Con: Economic growth just for the sake of growth is not good. Making more products that just waste resources and keep people trapped in a "brainless consumer" position cannot be good on the long run.
1.9. Con: Countries and their governments compete. It's evident in schools, employment, how some countries have it more than others, constantly fighting for monetary value. ex. schools give out generic exams, students are a # to show the success of American schools, not to help them completely. It might not just be the government can't afford a UBI, but simply they don't want to spend or waste money if it doesn't help them. They'd rather spend on military.
1.10. Pro: Providing a UBI reduces social inequalities and gives individuals more opportunities.
1.10.1. Pro: A UBI provides a base level of equality by ensuring that no-one lives below the poverty line.
1.10.1.1. Pro: A UBI can remove much of the anxiety surrounding the ability to make monthly payments and still eat, freeing people to pursue what they want rather that feeling trapped in what they hate.
1.10.1.1.1. Con: Pursuing a dream, it isn't only money that will help you \(it helps a lot, as it gives you more time to try and fail again and again, but it's not the panacea\). Example: the dream of 'starting a business,' you have to fight against your fears of customer's rejection, pivot the original idea, learn from books and conferences about business, advertising, pricing etc. A UBI won't free you 100%, only from the basic needs \(explained on [Maslow's pyramid](https://www.simplypsychology.org/maslow.html)\).
1.10.1.1.1.1. Con: The financial risk of business failure is, by far, the biggest obstacle to entrepreneurship among the poor. A UBI alleviates that risk, and numerous pilot programs in the poorest parts of the world have proven removing the risk of abject destitution from entrepreneurship is a huge boost to entrepreneurship.
1.10.2. Con: A UBI will not work to resolve issues such as poverty.
1.10.2.1. Pro: While humanity is certainly outgrowing contribution-based income as a means of survival, widely distributing money would simply devalue the money and not solve the problem.
1.10.2.1.1. Pro: If currency is [given away in large quantities to a majority of people](http://money.cnn.com/2017/07/26/news/economy/venezuela-economic-crisis/index.html) it will no longer be a store of value, except perhaps for government products and services. For all other trade that is not controlled by government, alternatives to the UBI currency will be used such as [foreign currencies not involved in UBI](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-11-01/venezuela-s-currency-is-collapsing-on-the-black-market-again), [barter of commodities](https://www.pri.org/stories/2016-06-14/venezuelans-barter-diapers-food-smartphones) and [cryptocurrency](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/dec/16/venezuela-bitcoin-economy-digital-currency-bolivars).
1.10.2.1.2. Con: -> See 1.8.2.1.
1.10.2.1.3. Pro: If everyone has the ability to pay more but providers are free to charge more, rates will increase and the actual buying power of each dollar diminishes. This effect is well documented in connection with [government aid for college tuition](https://www.mercatus.org/%5Bnode%3A%5D/commentary/increasing-student-loans-and-rising-tuition-latest-research).
1.10.2.2. Con: It depends on the amount of money the UBI will provide. If the UBI program provides enough money to cover everyone's food, housing, and medical services, then it will, in fact, resolve the issue of poverty.
1.10.2.3. Pro: Under UBI relative poverty might even increase if people are content to live on the new subsistence level provided to all.
1.10.2.3.1. Con: This is incorrect. There are very specific metrics for poverty. The poverty line may shift but far more people will be above it as they will be able to purchase essential items and access essential services.
1.10.2.4. Con: UBI will resolve poverty as water resolves thirst. There is substantial evidence, from the psychological sciences on the negative effects of poverty and inequality on the entire society. The evidence shows that event the rich are worse off in unequal societies \(see Wilkinson & Pickett, Stiglitz or Biglan\) for fuller discussions. [equalitytrust.org.uk](https://www.equalitytrust.org.uk/resources/the-spirit-level)
1.10.2.5. Con: UBI in essence is a means to specifically address poverty and establishing a minimum basis for living which all should be entitled to regardless of lineage, education, or social status.
1.10.3. Con: A UBI may be treated as a solution for all social inequalities and injustices, leading to less political will for other change.
1.10.3.1. Pro: A UBI may be seen as a 'catch all' solution for those in need, and therefore there will be less political capital for additional welfare.
1.10.3.2. Con: Once people can meet their basic needs, they will have more free time for political engagement. Change requires not only suffering, but also room for action.
1.10.3.3. Con: This concern is only relevant to the period of pursuing UBI implementation, not to UBI implementation itself. If implemented, it would become empirically clear what it has solved and what remains to be solved by other means.
1.10.4. Pro: UBI is a new approach to the problems that come with a banking system based on interest. In capitalism, the one who already has a lot of money, will be given even more and people in need of money, will struggle to get money. A UBI has the potential to uplift those masses of humans in need and decrease the power of the rich.
1.10.4.1. Con: This concept of the worker class being poor is caused by contrasting analysis between classes of the subject context. For those third world countries the lesser income of those of first is already considered sufficient and even much. That said, even this Manichaeism is based on the interest of profit of the worker class. Not to mention that oppressing the capital discourage investment, aggravating poverty.
1.10.4.1.1. Con: Since the Reagan Presidency in the US, there has been an ongoing experiment in the idea that investment and capital gains decrease poverty; [all evidence suggests it is a failure, as the poverty rate has increased since its lowest point in 1973](https://poverty.ucdavis.edu/faq/what-current-poverty-rate-united-states). By any measure increased investment has done nothing at all to alleviate poverty, and could easily be argued to be making it worse.
1.10.5. Pro: UBI solves a great variety of problems. Why so many? Perhaps it's deepest virtue is liberation of mind. For everyone to procure their interests without coercion, submission and dependency relations, is efficient and fair, liberal and inclusive. UBI trumps our 'human right to culture', to a role in society and a share of civilization, like we'd respect a bird's 'animal right to nature' by letting it fly. To flap our wings in \(basic\) freedom is no frivolity but key to a strong, healthy society.
1.11. Pro: A UBI is a more efficient and effective form of welfare than the current programs.
1.11.1. Pro: Providing a UBI removes the stigma associated with receiving welfare because everyone gets these payments.
1.11.2. Pro: Means based welfare systems require a lot of governmental administration and work, while a UBI is simple as everyone gets the same amount.
1.11.3. Con: The complexity of welfare programs is appropriate as people have different needs and therefore it is useful if welfare can target those needs.
1.11.3.1. Con: Welfare programs are typically averaged across general demographic and geographic data. They are neither complex nor useful and only end up benefitting the few and those who know how to work the system.
1.11.3.2. Con: The complexity of these systems make them ripe with loopholes and ways to get more than what you are entitled to.
1.11.3.3. Con: If people cannot live independently even when given the necessary funds, they need a custodian, not welfare.
1.11.4. Con: This claim would have one believe that paying nonetheless a recipient who does not require the support to survive is "efficient".
1.11.4.1. Con: For it to not be efficient, the cost of figuring out who requires support would need to be less than cost of allays to those who do not require it plus the cost of dealing with complaints about how "unfair" the targeted system is.
1.11.5. Pro: The private sector supplies goods and services more efficiently and effectively than Government. The problem is that the private sector creates this value for 'money'. If you have 'no money', the private sector offers you 'no value'. With UBI Government can \[mostly\] get out of the 'supply' business making provision much more efficient, while supporting 'demand' with a single process. Creating an efficient, innovative, effective, productive and equatable economy.
1.11.6. Con: There are extremely limited studies to support the claim that a UBI is actually more efficient/effective, and the ones that do exist were performed in already high quality of life nations. The claim it is more efficient cannot be made because not enough pilot programs exist testing across wide ranges of demographics, incomes, and geographic locations, all of which are vital to consider.
1.11.6.1. Con: There have been many global experiments with UBI, more in less affluent countries than rich ones. Claims that "there is no evidence" requires citation. [Here's just one study](http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/617631468001808739/Cash-transfers-and-temptation-goods-a-review-of-global-evidence) that includes countries throughout Southeast Asia, Africa, and Latin America.
1.12. Pro: Introducing a UBI will improve people's lives, as they will have more freedom in terms of how much they work and what they do.
1.12.1. Pro: UBI will increase the value of certain types of challenging physical labour \(like agriculture and construction\), increasing the protection of workers in these sectors.
1.12.1.1. Con: This is not related to UBI. The impact on labour will only go so far as to change the amount of time spent on tasks. Considered across all industries and labour markets this will have a zero sum effect as all industries will adjust.
1.12.1.2. Pro: It is probable that a combination of UBI and advanced machines / robotics will reduce the demand for physical labour.
1.12.2. Pro: A UBI will improve people's working conditions as employment will be optional and not as necessary, people will leave jobs if conditions are bad.
1.12.3. Pro: With the support of a UBI, people can work less hours which gives them more time to pursue other interests.
1.12.4. Pro: UBI, could facilitate more creativity, allowing people to focus on what interests them, instead of focusing on surviving.
1.12.5. Pro: Many jobs today serve no real need or provide no tangible service other than to create more wealth or profits. These could be eliminated if we shifted employment goals from monetary to society beneficial.
1.12.6. Con: -> See 1.2.9.1.2.
1.12.7. Con: This is not necessarily a good thing, as many people will likely lose interest in providing for the needs of others, and will instead pursue vanity projects that other people don't find useful.
1.12.7.1. Con: There's no evidence to suggest that monetary compensation through wage labor is wholly concerned with providing for the needs of other. Indeed, many positions of employment are in fact vanity projects created by folks who own the capital necessary to fund them.
1.13. Pro: Providing a UBI recognises and supports those who contribute to society through work such as domestic labour and volunteering.
1.13.1. Pro: Work such as domestic labour is incredibly important for the functioning of society and the raising of families. A UBI provides appropriate compensation for this work that other income structures do not.
1.13.2. Pro: There are ways to contribute to society that fall outside paid jobs and a UBI makes it easier for people to make these contributions while also supporting themselves.
1.13.3. Con: The provision of a wage for people who do domestic labour can be discussed as an individual issue without needing to provide a UBI to all people.
1.13.3.1. Con: There are many ways to skin a cat. Pointing out that Method A of cat skinning is just one of them, is not a point against it. Method A still skins the cat. There would be a point if Method B were superior, but that case has not been made.
1.13.3.2. Con: It's not just domestic labor. There is plenty of free labor people provide that you don't pay for - e.g. volunteering, art, emotional management, being a good person, etc.
1.13.4. Pro: A UBI could give a much better support to non-waged and non-salaried work such as caregivers who care for their own young, elderly, disabled, injured, and ill. Society is only as good as its weakest link and when a family member falls under these kinds of categories the resulting loss of income is often too harsh a punishment for the whole family.
1.13.5. Pro: UBI would increase volunteer support for nonprofit organizations.
1.13.6. Pro: More children may have parents at home instead of being shuffled to pricey \(sometimes unfit\) daycare facilities.
1.13.7. Con: UBI is intended to be a minimal income \(basic\). If it's minimal, and everybody gets it, it's would not be perceived as a recognition in society.