Discussion Title: Should Cigarettes be Taxed More When we Know that they Kill?

1. Cigarettes should be taxed even more because we know that they kill.
1.1. Pro: Children learn habits from parents and teachers in their early years of life, which last forever. This is the time when they should be taught not to smoke, as doing this when they are adults has proved futile.
1.1.1. Pro: Showing videos that teaching children it is not fashionable to smoke may help keep them away from it.
1.2. Pro: This could be approached by way of collective action; file legal suits against tobacco brands by thousands and force the courts to listen to the voice of the people.
1.2.1. Con: This assumes that everybody agrees with banning or increased taxation on cigarettes; this is not true.
1.3. Pro: If taxes were increased, the government could use the taxation revenue to create greater awareness about the perils of smoking.
1.3.1. Con: Greater awareness will bring down smoking, causing a decrease in tax revenue. Taxes, in a way, will become an incentive to do nothing.
1.4. Con: Rather than taxing cigarettes and tobacco products, governments should focus on creating awareness; smokers are going to buy it, no matter how expensive it becomes.
1.4.1. Pro: Heavy taxation further burdens the socio-economic classes that can barely afford them in the first place. Contrary to the expectation that someone will quit when they cannot afford cigarettes, cigarettes will be purchased at the expense of food.
1.5. Con: The tobacco industry is already heavily taxed. Further taxation would damage the livelihoods of farmers who grow tobacco, and thousands of people who earn a living out of this industry.
1.6. Con: Once taxation reaches a certain level, black market cigarettes become a problem. Just as government prohibition of alcohol and marijuana gives rise to criminal enterprise, so does the de facto ban on cigarettes through high taxes.
1.7. Con: Taxation can lead to the notion that cigarettes are for privileged people, and are valuable, increasing incentive in juveniles.
1.8. Con: -> See discussion #5380: Taxation is theft.
1.9. Pro: This is done in other countries, Australia as an example, to act as an incentive for people to quit. The revenue it raises is used to fund healthcare which smokers will need if they continue to smoke.