Discussion Title: Should mandatory protest free zones around abortion clinics be enforced?

1. This house would introduce mandatory protest free zones around abortion clinics
1.1. Con: Protests at abortion clinics draw attention to the abortion debate and improve the quality of discourse.
1.1.1. Pro: Protests outside clinics are dramatic and highly symbolic, which attracts media attention to the abortion debate.
1.1.2. Pro: The debate over abortion rights often fades into the background of political discourse, which means that important policy reforms are delayed.
1.1.3. Pro: Pro-choice activists are galvanised by protests at abortion clinics to hold their own counter-protests.
1.1.3.1. Con: Counter protests do not effectively counter the effect that anti abortion protests have on women. Messages of support are less impactful than the visceral violent actions of anti abortion protesters, such as throwing fake blood on women, and screaming that they are a murderer.
1.1.4. Pro: The media scrutiny of protests at abortion clinics allows bigotry and radicalism to be called out publically.
1.1.5. Con: A ban on protests around abortion zones would be an equally effective public condemnation of the harassment of women, without the cost of those women having to experience harassment.
1.1.6. Con: Anti abortion protests, and the large amounts of press coverage they gain, suggests that there is equal support for both sides of the debate. By eliminating these shock tactics it is likely that the perceived levels of support for anti choice activism will decrease.
1.1.7. Con: The media attention garnered is negative, particularly because when there are clashes between pro and anti choice activitists that end violently. Pro Voice activists are tarnished with the same brush, and their cause becomes less sympathetic
1.1.8. Con: More media attention is not positive if it overstates the amount of support for anti abortion movements.
1.2. Con: Introducing mandatory protest free zones will increase political opposition to abortion, and limit the capacity of women to access abortion in the long term. If the premise of the affirmative case is that abortion is a right, this policy thus fails to secure that right.
1.2.1. Pro: This plays into the narrative that the Left is illiberal and wants to shut down debate. It will thus turn people off the pro-choice cause, and make the pro-life camp seem comparatively reasonable.
1.2.1.1. Pro: To many people, the fact that the government is suppressing pro-life arguments may seem like an indication that those arguments are true. Pro-lifers will ask: 'if our arguments are so obviously false, why is the government so worried about you hearing them?'
1.2.1.2. Con: Again, this claim fails to link the opposition to restrictions on free speech to opposition to abortion. In fact those who are more liberal and oppose incursion on freedom of speech would also be likely to oppose incursions on a woman's right to choose.
1.2.2. Pro: This forces people to choose between supporting abortion rights and supporting freedom of speech. Many people will opt for the latter.
1.2.2.1. Pro: In many jurisdictions, such as the US South, freedom of speech is seen as an inviolable right, while abortion rights are hotly contested. These are the jurisdictions in which there is the greatest need to secure access to abortion for women, and in which protest-free zones will be most unpopular.
1.2.2.2. Con: This argument presents a false dichotomy between supporting abortion and supporting free speech. There is a possibility for a nuanced response from the public that will not necessarily encroach on abortion rights.
1.2.3. Pro: Locking up  activists who protest outside abortion clinics will make them into martyrs of the pro-life cause.
1.2.4. Pro: If fewer people support abortion rights, there will be greater social stigma against people who choose to have abortions. As a result, individuals will feel pressured to carry their unwanted children to term.
1.2.4.1. Con: The social stigma is only effective when women are outed as having abortions. Our policy will ensure that women are less likely to be personally identified and directly shamed for having an abortion.
1.2.4.2. Con: Our policy makes anti abortion activism less prominent, therefore it is unclear that there would necessarily be less support for abortion rights.
1.2.5. Pro: If the pro-choice movement is weakened relative to the pro-life movement, politicians and voters will move to restrict abortion rights. This will be achieved by defunding clinics, criminalising abortion under certain circumstances, and permitting doctors to discourage patients from receiving abortions.
1.2.5.1. Con: This argument assumes that the anti abortion movement has a capacity for growth. Empirically the support for anti abortion has been declining. Even if this increases the fervour of those who opposition this doesn't necessarily increase their numbers. Therefore it is unlikely that this policy will shift the balance in favour of anti abortion activists.
1.2.6. Pro: The greatest barrier to accessing abortion is not protests outside clinics, but social stigma and policies that prevent individuals from going to clinics in the first place.
1.2.6.1. Pro: For example, in the US state of Mississippi there is only one abortion clinic remaining after an aggressive Republican campaign of defunding Planned Parenthood.
1.2.6.2. Con: The policy doesn't have to bear the burden of solving all of the stigma against abortion. At the very least this policy will reduce that stigma, which is in and of itself an important benefit.
1.2.7. Con: In the short term there may be a backlash from the pro-life community. However the likelihood that this will lead to long term increase in support for anti abortion activism is low. This is because the cause will be further from the public's mind.
1.2.8. Con: Although this may enrage free speech activists, it is unclear why those free speech activists would respond by trying to limit women's abortion rights. In so far as there would be backlash it would be regarding the policy, and not conflated with the rights of women.
1.2.9. Con: The ban on protests will send an important social message that the government and society are unwilling to stand for women being shamed and humiliated for making their choices. This will delegitimise anti abortion activism and reduce societal stigma.
1.3. Pro: Abortion is an important right for women that the government has an obligation to provide. Women should have autonomy over their own bodies and not be forced to carry a foetus  to term against their wishes.
1.3.1. Pro: Carrying a child to term involves a significant physical and emotional burden for a woman who doesn't want that child. This pain and suffering can be easily avoided with an abortion. Although many women may not wish to have an abortion for personal reasons, the opportunity should still be provided for those that do.
1.3.2. Pro: A foetus does not develop a nervous system until the third term of pregnancy. Before this stage the foetus is unable to feel pain, much less conceptualise its own existence. The foetus is therefore not being deprived of life, because at the point at which abortion occurs it is not alive in any meaningful sense. The nebulous concept of future rights should not outweigh the existing rights of the mother to control her own body.
1.3.2.1. Con: Lacking self awareness or the capacity to feel pain does not void your right to life. People who have certain disabilities and illnesses may lack these capacities, but we still do not permit the murder of those individuals.
1.3.3. Con: The pro-life position on abortion is legitimate. The contention that life begins at birth is arbitrary, and it is not unreasonable to believe that unborn children should be granted moral personhood. Many moral philosophers believe that abortion is murder.
1.3.4. Pro: Even if pro-life supporters believe they have a legitimate position, that is no longer supported by the legislation of the countries we are talking about. In the same way that religious individuals still have to respect the validity of the marriage of a same sex couple, they should also respect the right of women to have an abortion.
1.3.4.1. Con: Religious conservatives may be compelled to recognise same-sex marriage, but we do not stop them from protesting it.
1.4. Pro: Protests around abortion clinics impede the ability of women to access their right to an abortion. Even when abortion is legal, many women are deprived of their rights when they are threatened and coerced into not terminating their pregnancy
1.4.1. Pro: At the point at which women are pressured out of getting an abortion, they are deprived of access to this right in its entirety. There will be some women on the margins who would have gotten an abortion, but for the presence of protestors at a clinic. The rights of these women should be prioritised over the rights of protestors.
1.4.2. Pro: Women who struggle with the idea of getting an abortion are likely to have a religious upbringing which reinforces the notion that abortion is sin and murder. These women are particularly vulnerable to the guilt inducing tactics used by protestors who shame women.
1.4.2.1. Pro: Women who belong to a religious community will already be experiencing a significant degree of emotional turmoil. At the point at which they make the decision to get an abortion, there is still a risk that aggressive protestors will shame women out of making this choice.
1.4.3. Pro: Women who become pregnant unintentionally are very emotionally vulnerable. They will like be considering a range of options, and may not feel as though they are ready to have a child. They will also face societal stigma surrounding abortion, and possible pressure from people around them. In this difficult time it is important that a woman is allowed to come to her own decision. The aggressive protest tactics which include throwing blood on women are likely to take advantage of this vulnerability
1.4.4. Con: You don't have a right to avoid discomfort while accessing your rights. The fact that abortion is legal does not mean that people should be stopped from informing women of their opposition to it.
1.4.4.1. Pro: Women have an obligation to seriously consider their decision to have an abortion, given that there is no objectively correct answer to the question of whether unborn children are people.
1.4.4.2. Con: It is disingenuous to characterise protests as "informing women". Information can be provided in counselling sessions, through information booklets, and civilised conversation. This is empirically not the methods used by protestors, who instead target the emotional vulnerability of women. Protestors can still access their right to freedom of speech in other areas, however there is no reason that this right should include a right to harrass and shame.
1.4.5. Pro: Protest tactics use emotional manipulation and shame to try and dissuade women from having abortions. This pressure comes at a time when woman are entering an abortion clinic and likely feel some apprehension and nervousness.
1.4.5.1. Pro: Protestors protest because they believe it can be effective at saving lives. Therefore there are clearly are at least some women who change their minds.
1.4.6. Con: We should not infantilise women. They are capable of engaging in discussions that may be upsetting, and making their own decisions despite external pressure.
1.4.7. Con: We already ban the use of intimidation and violence in abortion protests.
1.4.7.1. Con: This concedes that we would ban actions which harass women. We have proven elsewhere in our case that the actions of protestors are violent and harm women. Therefore they should be banned in order to enforce the effective prevention of intimidation.
1.5. Pro: There are significant harms that result from women feeling like they are unable to get an abortion. This includes personal harm to the mother who has to carry and raise an unwanted child, as well as to the child who will be less likely to have a safe and happy home environment.
1.5.1. Pro: Women who get dissuaded from attending an abortion clinic may still seek an abortion again, but they will be more likely to try and keep it secret, or obtain it unlawfully from a private doctor.
1.5.2. Pro: If a women carries the child to term and then gives it up for adoption she will suffer further emotional trauma from the knowledge that she was unable to care for the child that she carried for 9 months and developed strong hormonal connections to.
1.5.3. Pro: Some women who are pressured out of getting an abortion may be unwilling to give up their child, even though they are not in a financial position to support them. This will impose significant stress on the mother, and the child will grow up in an environment where their needs may not be met.
1.5.3.1. Con: The welfare state provides for single mothers to ensure a decent standard of living.
1.5.3.1.1. Con: This is untrue, particularly in the United States, where many of these protests occur.
1.5.4. Con: If a woman wants an abortion but feels unable to attend an abortion clinic that has a protest outside, she can go to another clinic. These protests are not constant and universal.
1.5.4.1. Pro: This concedes that women should have the right to evade protestors. Our policy merely facilitates their evasion by enforcing a protest free zone.
1.5.4.2. Con: In many  conservative rural communities, women only have access to one abortion clinic. These are the places where anti-abortion protests are most common and extreme.
1.6. Con: Introducing protest-free zones will lead to more radical and violent forms of protest.
1.6.1. Pro: Radical pro-life activists have an extreme degree of commitment to their ideological position, which means that they are likely to seek alternative methods of resistance to abortion once protests at clinics are banned.
1.6.2. Pro: Pro-lifers will protest outside the exclusion zones, which will be worse because they will be harder to anticipate and police, and will have less media scrutiny.
1.6.2.1. Con: The area will presumably be wide enough to make it impossible to line the perimeter with individuals. It also means that any protest cannot be targeted directly at women.
1.6.2.2. Con: Less media scrutiny is a good thing because it doesn't give a voice to protestors.
1.6.3. Pro: Some pro-life activists will approach individual pregnant women in their community and attempt to convince them not to undergo abortion, which is more intrusive than doing so at the abortion clinic.
1.6.3.1. Con: Speaking to women at an abortion clinic is equally personal and intrusive. Moreover there is less chance that you can be identified in public as a pregnant woman in the first trimester of pregnancy, whereas if you visit an abortion clinic you can be targeted.
1.6.4. Pro: Extremist pro-lifers will commit terrorist attacks against abortion clinics, such as arson and shootings. This already occurs occasionally under the status quo, but will become more common when they have no other way to stop people from getting abortions.
1.6.5. Con: In so far as there are individuals who have the potential to react violently and dangerously, they are more likely to be trigger and provoked by constantly standing outside a centre and seeing "murder" occurring in front of their eyes every day. At least if they cannot stand outside centres they will be less directly provoked.
1.6.6. Con: Most anti abortion activists feel very strongly about preventing murder. It seems highly unlikely that they would condone committing murder.
1.6.7. Con: Many people feel strongly about abortion, however this doesn't mean that they are murders with no morals. The types of people who engage in terrorist acts are unhinged and unlikely to approach the issue logically.
1.7. Pro: The government has a role in protecting the most vulnerable members of society, and should actively reduce the stigma surrounding abortion by implementing protest free zones.
1.7.1. Pro: Within our social and political system there is a stratification of power that results in some individuals suffering disadvantage. The most vulnerable voices, such as those of women or people of colour are often drowned out in public. At the point at which abortion is legal, it is absurd that individuals continue to harass women for accessing that right.
1.7.2. Pro: Given that the government has made a decision to legalise abortion, society clearly supports women being able to to have this right. Women are being harassed in a targeted manner, with protestors attempting to enforce their own belief systems on others.
1.7.2.1. Con: It could be argued that the beliefs of the pro-life community are constantly under assault by a society that permits abortion. Protests at abortion clinics are an important form of resistance for this community.
1.7.3. Con: Pro-lifers will be more likely to stigmatise women who receive abortions if they do not have the outlet of protesting at clinics.
1.7.4. Con: -> See 1.6.
1.7.5. Pro: The government is the only body that can effectively enforce and protect the rights of these women to safely access abortions.
1.8. Pro: Protest free zones will reduce vitriol and improve the quality of the discourse around abortion, benefiting all sides of the debate.
1.8.1. Pro: Protests are inherently confrontational, with the protestors frequently incensed, and desperately trying to prevent abortion which in their eyes is murder.
1.8.1.1. Con: Religious protesters have incentives to be friendly and non-confrontational.
1.8.1.1.1. Pro: They want to defend the reputation of their church as compassionate and moderate.
1.8.1.1.2. Pro: They care deeply about the plight of women who experience unwanted pregnancy, because they believe that all sinners can be saved. They hate the abortion clinics, not the women who use them.
1.8.1.1.3. Pro: Shouting at and abusing women is an ineffective method of getting them to agree with your position.
1.8.2. Pro: We remove the confrontation, and ensure that protestors and women do not come face to face with each other. This reduces the immediacy of the debate, and calms both sides.
1.8.3. Pro: Without protest free zones, anti abortion activists would be less able to directly target women, or identify women who got abortions.
1.8.4. Pro: The attitudes of pro-choice individuals are worsened when the anti-abortion movement is portrayed as violent and abusive. Without this picture, there may be less hostility towards the other side, enabling a more inclusive discourse.
1.8.5. Con: People get more vitriolic when they feel that their right to express themselves is threatened. Pro-lifers who are barred from protesting outside abortion clinics will take to social media and other outlets to vilify women who get abortions.
1.9. Con: Banning people from protesting at abortion clinics represents a violation of their right to free speech.
1.9.1. Con: Believing more fervently in your righteousness does not mean you have an increased right to speak.
1.9.2. Con: This is not a legitimate form of discussion, because it's intent is to coerce women out of abortions. This is evidenced by the tactics used by protesters, which is not that of a calm discussion but instead involves harassment and shouting.
1.9.3. Pro: Protesting outside an abortion clinic is not an act of coercion. It is just an attempt to persuade women to make a different decision.
1.9.3.1. Con: Intimidation still occurs despite attempts at legal protection.
1.9.3.2. Pro: -> See 1.4.7.
1.9.4. Pro: It is illegitimate for the state to stop people from voicing their opinion to one another. Opinions are subjective and it is not the role of any authority to determine which ones are normatively acceptable. This policy limits the capacity of pro-lifers to express their opinions.
1.9.4.1. Con: The state frequently intervenes in free speech where that speech has harmful outcomes. For example the criminalisation of hate speech, holocaust denial and racial abuse.
1.9.4.2. Con: Anti choice activists are still able to express their opinions, however their right to free speech does not automatically give them a right to deliver that speech directly to a vulnerable and threatened audience.
1.9.5. Pro: From the perspective of a pro-lifer, abortion is a moral atrocity. It is thus extremely important for them to be able to express their opposition to it, and to have the opportunity to convince individuals to forgo it.
1.9.6. Pro: It is especially important that pro-lifers have the opportunity to protest around abortion clinics. This is because these protests represent a unique opportunity to talk directly to people who are considering abortions, and also because they garner media attention.
1.9.6.1. Con: Protestors can still access their right to freedom of speech, this merely restricts the area in which that speech is practice
1.9.6.2. Con: This limitation of a right should be compared to the harm of allowing the protests, which is to totally eliminate the right to an abortion for some women.
1.9.7. Con: Free speech is an instrumental right. Free speech should not be valued at the point at which it encroaches on other people's rights.
1.9.8. Con: Our society  supports measures to evade the speech of others, for example, driving into an abortion clinic in a private car to avoid protests. This shows that even if you have a right to speak you do not have a right to be heard.
1.9.8.1. Pro: Our policy effectively supports the evasion of anti abortion speech, it doesn't limit the right to that speech.