Discussion Title: Should We Spend Spare Time in Self-Improvement or Helping Others?

1. We should spend our spare time helping others rather than in self-development.
1.1. Pro: Volunteering is a form of self-development; the two are not mutually exclusive.
1.2. Pro: Helping others can bring a sense of fulfilment.
1.3. Pro: Through helping others, we can increase our social circle, and strengthen our sense of connections.
1.4. Con: Self-improvement is more important, because through developing oneself one can also become a more valuable member of his/her community.
1.4.1. Pro: A volunteering engineer or physician is making a significantly larger impact than a high school graduate.
1.4.1.1. Con: Those occupations are not the only ones that can contribute to society. The high school graduate may show more compassion, or be able to contribute other qualities that are vital to society.
1.5. Con: We are intrinsically selfish, and only interested in self-preservation. Self-improvement naturally follows from that.
1.5.1. Con: This depends on what is meant by 'self-improvement'; selfishness is not a good trait to promote, so selfish people are unlikely to improve themselves much.
1.5.1.1. Con: Selfish people may have different metrics, and so continually self-improve even if others may not agree with the traits they promote.
1.6. Pro: Through helping others, we lose our own selves, and find freedom from our own problems and worries.
1.6.1. Con: This is a very subjective experience, and not universally true.
1.7. Pro: Volunteering and lifting others also help us grow to be better leaders.
1.8. Pro: Through volunteering, we get to experience others' problems and develop a broader perspective of the world and of life.
1.9. Con: Most volunteering efforts are like band-aids to fix deeper problems, and their efficacy quickly goes away.
1.9.1. Con: If the set-up of said volunteering efforts was changed, it would be more effective for far longer - and the intent \(to help others\) remains the same, even if they are ineffective.