Discussion Title: Should hate speech be illegal?

1. Hate speech should be banned.
1.1. Con: It is better to challenge bad ideas than to simply ban the enunciation of them.
1.1.1. Con: It is impossible to challenge bad ideas if the opposing party has no voice. Those who advocate hate speech will never allow their ideas to be challenged. The foundation of hate speech laws came after Hitler rose to power through hate speech. Then once he was in power he removed all that opposed him by wiping them out effectively removing free speech.
1.1.2. Con: People who use hate speech are not generally open to reason; this approach will not work.
1.1.2.1. Con: Those people can be educated, or better convinced. Many kinds of hate speech are based on misunderstood ideas or stereotypes.
1.1.2.1.1. Con: You can't educate somebody, who doesn't want to be educated.
1.1.2.1.1.1. Pro: Being ignorant is easy. The cost of seeking true answers is usually larger than cost of finding easiest answers.
1.1.2.1.1.2. Pro: If people were ready to learn, misunderstandings and stereotypes wouldn't be such a problem.
1.1.3. Pro: Hate speech is the very reason for the 1st amendment. It is no great enlightenment to protect speech that everyone agrees with. True freedom is the freedom to spew hate and then be condemned and debilitated by society that rejects that hate. This was the path of the KKK. They turned into a miniscule and impotent group of extremists just because of their right to speak and our right to condemn it without government interference. That is what our natural right of freedom is all about.
1.1.4. Pro: So long as it does not directly contribute to violence, all speech should be free. No group of people should be above criticism.
1.1.5. Pro: People who hear hate speech in their environment should hear it in an open debate where it can be debunked. If you would force hate speech into the shadows there will most likely be an increase in extremism on all sides of the spectrum.
1.1.6. Pro: The Free Marketplace of Ideas, expressed in modern society through revolutionary platforms like [Kialo](http://www.kialo.com), will ultimately eviscerate any negative effects of hate speech through the exchange, and Beyblade-like battle, of thought.
1.1.7. Pro: If we ban hate speeches, we lose the daily opportunities to challenge these ideas. Instead they become taboos, and will be conserved in our culture. If we do not ban hate speech, we can easily confute these theories on a daily basis, and even laugh at them.
1.1.8. Pro: Banning someone else's right to speak doesn't stop or change their thinking. It's burying your head in the sand and telling yourself "yay, we won, nobody's allowed to say that anymore". Meanwhile, the idea  and emotion still thrives but now in secret, and likely becomes more entrenched due to the person's resentment at being restricted.
1.1.9. Pro: Banning any kind of speech will not eliminate the reason for which hate speech exists, and will simply end up being a censorship move, which may be totalitarian. Hate speech should be allowed, so that it can flow freely along with all other information, and allow the world to be aware of hate speech in its true form. Censorship is not healthy under any circumstance.
1.1.10. Con: Modern social media platforms like Reddit, Twitter, 4chan, empower a few bad actors \("Trolls"\) to have a disproportionately large effect on the overall discourse. People who are not interested in the free exchange of ideas are able to silence dissenting voices through online trolling techniques and poison the conversation. At some point, those who are not interested in honest discourse should be escorted to the exits.
1.1.10.1. Con: This makes the assumption that human discussion will inherently tilt that way rather than being the role of how a discussion platform is designed or who its target audience is.
1.1.10.2. Con: It is the right of any media platform to foster any kind of community they deem appropriate. The free market will by nature punish media outlets if their platforms aren't attractive because serious users will go elsewhere \(to sites like Kialo\). There is no need for legislative banning of people who speak with hate.
1.1.11. Con: It is possible to debate the bad ideas behind hate speech on a societal level even if hate speech is limited.
1.1.12. Pro: Rather than state, national or federal interference each rally would be better observed and potentially dispersed by local law enforcement on a case by case basis, according to factors like size and aggression of said crowds.
1.2. Pro: If hate speech is at least more likely than not to cause harms, such as attacks or the eroding of minority rights, then it is justifiable to ban it.
1.2.1. Con: Restricting "hate speech" is a violation of "minority rights" itself - by definition it is a majority defining what opinions are acceptable and what opinions are not acceptable, and punishing the minority whose opinions are considered "hateful."
1.2.2. Pro: Hate speech often suggests actions that are specifically meant to introduce actions causing harm to other human beings based on ethnicity, religious affiliation, or sexual preferences. [pewglobal.org](http://www.pewglobal.org/2015/11/18/2-the-boundaries-of-free-speech-and-a-free-press/)  [pewresearch.org](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/11/15/assaults-against-muslims-in-u-s-surpass-2001-level/)
1.2.2.1. Con: The generation of action from speech ignores the concept of responsibility and consequences. The old adage "sticks and stones" express an adult response to hate speech. The answer is to teach people grown-up behavior in society. 1\) ignore hate speech and 2\) your actions are your responsibility.
1.2.3. Con: Many types of speech are likely to cause harm, but it's unconstitutional to ban certain types of speech—hate or otherwise—on that basis.
1.2.3.1. Con: It's only unconstitutional in a country that has such a constitutions. Not all countries have the equivalent of USA's First Amendment in their constitution.
1.2.3.2. Con: Some speech that causes harm \(shouting "fire!" in a crowded theater is the classic example\) is already illegal in the United States. Therefore, it is not unconstitutional to ban harmful types of speech.
1.2.3.2.1. Con: The case from which the "fire" analogy came from has since been overturned by Brandenburg v. Ohio, making it clear that only speech that incites "imminent lawless action" or falls within another narrow exception can be banned - even that case did not say anything like the idea that ANY "harmful speech" can be banned. There's clearly a difference legally between causing immediate breach of the peace and speech possibly hurting someone's feelings.
1.2.4. Con: Not only is it difficult to find a direct causation link between hate speech and violence, but a policy banning speech based upon its hypothetical, potential effects has no basis in reality. A policy must address the causes or outcomes of a quantifiable issue or flaw, not a hypothetical one.
1.2.5. Con: Many terrorist attacks are committed by followers of the Koran and Hadith and terrorists say they are inspired by the texts. By this reasoning, these books should be made illegal.
1.2.5.1. Con: The Quran is interpreted in many different ways. Only those interpretations that incite violence should be illegal.
1.2.6. Con: If you ban hate-speech then whenever someone breaks that law and is arrested the next thing you know that person may well be elevated to some kind of folk-hero status for swarms of bigots to rally behind. It could backfire.
1.2.7. Pro: Freedom hinges on our self-control as a citizen, causing violence makes you a threat to civil peace.
1.3. Pro: The vast majority of countries in the world have hate speech legislation.
1.3.1. Con: "Other people do it" does not make something justified or a good idea.
1.3.2. Pro: Not all speech is free; perjury and defamation are examples of illegal forms of speech.
1.3.2.1. Con: In those cases, the harm is not simply someone's feelings being hurt, the harm results from miscarriage of justice \(perjury\) and the tangible harms from damage to reputation as a result of defamation.
1.3.2.2. Con: The First Amendment does not protect defamation or perjury because those are long-standing historical exceptions which were part of the original public meaning of the First Amendment and have been unanimously accepted by the courts. The same cannot be said of "hate speech" - banning it would clearly violate the First Amendment and require a new constitutional amendment.
1.3.3. Con: In the vast majority of countries, hate speech legislation is a [disaster](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/arrests-for-offensive-facebook-and-twitter-posts-soar-in-london-a7064246.html).
1.4. Con: Giving the government the ability to regulate any speech gives them the ability to inhibit free exchange of ideas.
1.5. Pro: Hate speech is harmful; harm is a basis used to restrict rights justifiably.
1.5.1. Con: This presumes that "hate speech is harmful" and that the harm is not outweighed by the benefits. Benefits include discovering that you are willing \(or not\) to stand up to hateful rhetoric, learning how to manage your emotional reactions to that same rhetoric, making a decision to engage in conversation and attempt to sway the speaker. Growth comes from adversity.
1.5.1.1. Con: So the benefits include struggling for the respect you deserve \(like any other human\), fighting with groups of people that wan't to deny the respect for you? Basically what you're saying is that the "benefits" include unnecessary stress.
1.5.1.2. Con: Hateful rhetoric is the problem, so the benefit of defending against it is no benefit at all, if you can avoid hateful speech.
1.5.2. Con: People are only harmed by hate speech if they take it seriously, and anyone can choose not to be affected by it.
1.5.2.1. Con: You may not always find yourself in a privileged position to gracefully ignore hate speech. If for example your environment like colleagues or relatives react to it, you have little choice than to react also.
1.5.3. Con: Hate speech has to be proven to be harmful. This will be difficult with so many people saying it is not harmful to them. If it is not harmful in all cases it is not the root of the problem and not definitively harmful. Something else is the problem.
1.5.3.1. Con: Being difficult to prove doesn't make the claim false.
1.5.3.2. Con: "Many people saying" is an invalid argument. I.e. in the beginning of the feminist movement also many women didn't feel discriminated, and yet today it is clear without a doubt that at that time women have been denied basic citizen rights \(like right to vote\).
1.5.4. Pro: -> See 1.2.2.
1.5.5. Con: Physical harm is the basis, not verbal harm.
1.5.5.1. Con: If someone's speech incites violence, then physical harm is a real risk. The same applies to threats.
1.5.6. Con: 'Justifiably' is a given opinion, not a statement of fact. What is a justifiable restriction to one person is not to another.
1.5.7. Con: Non-physical harm is difficult to understand and quantify. The subjective feelings of individuals is a poor foundation for legislative action.
1.5.7.1. Con: Threats also don't include physical harm and yet are perceived as morally wrong, and are banned by law in most countries.
1.5.7.1.1. Con: Conflating hate speech with threats is nonsensical; as hate speech is loosely and subjectively defined, and those that consider hate speech to be threats to their person have yet to concretely prove how they are indeed threats, whereas actual threats clearly indicate potential harm to the person or people they're directed towards.
1.6. Pro: Hate speech is a de facto limitation on the free speech of those targeted.
1.6.1. Con: There is no connection between hate speech and the speech of those targeted.
1.6.2. Pro: Speech that infringes on any other citizen's rights should be banned. Demonizing others to mute their voice infringes on their free speech.
1.6.3. Con: By no means does a hateful comment silence its target. Targeted individuals still have the right to respond on many platforms -- in person, in public, online.
1.6.3.1. Con: Constant hateful attacks discourage people to speak publicly. Public attacks of a minority group create insecurity for that particular group and can discourage them to speak publicly.
1.7. Con: There is no such thing as hate speech.
1.7.1. Con: Our moral sense detects the existence of objective moral values and duties. Therefore, a standard of good and wholesome speech exists. If a standard of good and wholesome speech exists, the departing from this standard results in a gradual degradation of speech that goes from poor, to bad, to evil. Thus hate speech at some level clearly exists, and is an evil perversion of good speech.
1.8. Con: All speech should be free.
1.8.1. Con: Our society would be much worse off if libel and clear cases of intentionally inciting panic \(e.g. shouting 'fire' in a crowded theatre\) were unfettered.
1.8.2. Pro: People should learn to be resistant to hateful influences; removing all hateful influences will make people less thick-skinned.
1.8.3. Pro: All speech/ideas should be protected as otherwise someone has to decide if it "breaks the rules". Unfortunately people are fallible and biased\(sometimes unknowingly\) and unpopular but valid arguments could be banished.
1.8.4. Con: Speeches instigating to commit crime against a person or a group of people should not be free. For example saying 'Lithuanian people are evil' should be legal, but saying 'lets kill every Lithuanian people we see' should not be legal. The most important reason for that is mass psychosis, a well manipulated crowd of ordinary people can commit unbelievable crimes.
1.8.5. Pro: If all speech in public is not free, then we can always find a justification to ban any sort of speech we wish.
1.8.6. Pro: The action of making hate speech illegal is literally having the government stop people from saying things that they don't like or agree with.
1.8.7. Pro: The [first amendment](http://www.billofrightsinstitute.org/founding-documents/bill-of-rights/) protects the freedom of speech, meaning all speech unconditionally, speaking alone cannot be made illegal. Legal action could be taken if the speech is directly related to a crime and only if, for example an intentional false tip to 911. Hate speech is legal on the grounds that any offence taken is fabricated by the recipient of the speech based on their own interpretation, and that any actions caused by the speech are made by the recipient entirely.
1.8.8. Pro: If an authority with power labels a discussion about hate speech \(such as this one\) as "hate speech," then we couldn't even have this discussion because it would be banned. The problem with banning any speech is that it gives too much power into the hands of the authorities in power to control public narratives and manipulate the populace. Therefore, all speech, including hate speech, should be protected as a fundamental right.
1.8.9. Pro: If you believe in the absolute freedom of speech, then no speech, no matter how hateful, should be banned. In doing so, you lose a valuable teaching tool. Imagine walking down a street and seeing a group of people carrying a confederate battle flag. You could point to that flag and explain to your child why the Civil war had to be fought...what came out of it, and what happened afterwards. The same could be said of the Nazi Flag, Russian Flag, etc. Without honest debate, people never learn.
1.9. Con: Hate speech is better limited by social pressure than legal sanction.
1.9.1. Pro: It is the responsibility of private institutions and citizens to censor and deplatform hateful speech. Hate speech shouldn't be given a private platform unless it is being rigorously challenged, but the government should not be involved in the censorship of speech.
1.9.2. Pro: The problem with legally banning free speech is that laws can be changed according to the government's will. The assumption that democracy will always be the ruling system is a devious one. Hate speech is best reprehended socially rather than legally.
1.9.3. Pro: While policing against hate-speech is state interference overriding civil liberty an alternative could be argued for letting anti-hate-speech assaults off lightly. If hate-speech want the law to stay out of it the law can, including being lenient on political opposition to hate-speech.
1.10. Pro: Hate speech legislation is necessary to promote social equality.
1.10.1. Con: Social equality is best created by social freedom. Ensuring each citizen has equal rights -- including an equal right to speech -- promotes social equality far better than denying the rights of ideological minorities.
1.11. Con: It is difficult to define hate speech in a way that works.
1.11.1. Con: Finding the best way for hate speech to work is paramount to a society's success. Hate speech encourages bad behavior such as killing or fighting people to resolve problems. WWII is an example of "fighting" instead of using diplomacy. Had we of stopped Hitler's hate speech usage after he used it through hate speech laws, we could have politically ended World War II before the killing began.
1.11.2. Pro: Hate is a human emotion, speech is a way to express yourself. Hate speech is therefore a human emotional expression. Emotional expressions shouldn't be banned.
1.11.2.1. Con: People also express human emotions such as hate through physical actions, such as punching or assaulting other people. We ban emotional expressions such as that.
1.11.2.1.1. Con: Physical assault/a punch has a guaranteed chance to do harm, that someone can get hurt by words is subjective.
1.11.3. Con: All of law involves defining things which are difficult to define.
1.11.4. Pro: When hate speech is banned, it is typically used by those in power to further oppress dissent, such as [Doe vs Michigan](https://www.bc.edu/bc_org/avp/cas/comm/free_speech/doe.html) where words such as ["white trash" caused black individuals to get in trouble](https://www.aclu.org/other/speech-campus), even though it was intended to protect those individuals.
1.11.5. Pro: The banning of hate speech is impractical. The "hate speech determination committee" could not possibly enact a structure to define hate speech. The line would always be moving.
1.11.6. Pro: If hate speech is to be banned, this must include all hate speech \(however defined\). This means that one could not express hate speech for Nazis, the KKK, or any other hate group. Thus no one could speak out in opposition against the choices of these groups for this could be constituted as hate speech against their chosen identity/lifestyle. These groups should receive social pressure to change. Thus, hate speech should not be banned.
1.11.7. Pro: Hate speech is at risk of being defined too broadly and impinging on free speech generally.
1.11.7.1. Pro: Hate is too subjective a term to apply legislatively. Without a true, immutable definition of hate, it's dangerous to impose without foreseeing an arena in which speech is restricted under any cosmetic circumstance. Law should not be immutable. It should be "a living document." So, with the exception of liable, all forms of speech should be constitutionally protected.
1.11.7.2. Pro: What constitutes hate in speech is subjective and depends largely on the audience. Therefore, how do you define what would be banned and what is allowed. In todays society where people become triggered at the slightest suggestion of hurt feelings the danger is that the brush of what is considered hate speech would be painted far too wide and restrict open discussion on sensitive subjects that need to be talked about.
1.11.7.3. Con: Hate speech can be succinctly and fairly defined as speech that calls for the destruction, de-humanization, or harming of specific groups that are defined by characteristics that group members cannot voluntarily change eg, race, gender, sexuality nation of birth, etc.
1.11.8. Pro: Hate Speech is too undefined a term to be regulated at all as what is and isn't considered hateful is subjective to each and every individual.
1.11.8.1. Pro: "Hate speech" is an entirely subjective term. Finding someone's commentary "hateful" is in no way a valid reason to silence it.
1.12. Con: Hate speech is just offensive speech; offense is not a justifiable reason for legal sanctions.
1.12.1. Con: Not if it incites acts of terror. This ideology that the peoples right of free speech to incite violence is more important than people's lives is dangerous and should not go unpunished by the removal of hate speech laws. Examples of true hate speech include Hitler's speeches after 1820 regarding the total annihilation of the Jews. Speeches given by the southern states of America suggesting that the Blacks are inferior to the whites, therefore they must be slaves.
1.12.1.1. Con: Freedom to incite acts of terror comes with risks, but your example of Hitler's speeches isn't comparable. A political movement that gains popularity through its initial rhetoric includes freedom of speech but he was granted the legal right to dictate without any legal objection thanks to the enabling act. Freedom of speech alone did not kill millions of people but paired with dangerous dictatorial powers and it became forced. Freedom of 'inoffensive speech' is not objective and is regressive.
1.12.2. Con: Offense can cause emotional damage. This emotional damage can result in suicide, self harm, etc. This can be grounds for legal sanctions.
1.12.2.1. Con: Not sure if using words to verbally abuse / attack / bully etc, which do have lasting damaging effects on individuals, is the same as 'hate speech' in the context of this debate. One being malicious speech with an intent to insult and degrade them and the other being legitimate perspectives that inadvertently offends. Free speech is not just for the inoffensive. It is better that such perspectives are heard as it allows us to challenge it with the same tools.
1.12.3. Pro: Censorship of speech is not the best approach. Free speech must be for all in society and not just for the inoffensive. Allowing speech with prejudices towards others can be difficult to hear but it is safer out in the open where society can see the argument and progress in the social conversation. Lack of education and lack of understanding leads to overt prejudice tinted perceptions and sweeping generalisations. Compound this with a silenced voice leads to further marginalisation.