Discussion Title: Should we abolish political parties in the USA?

1. There should be no political parties in the USA.
1.1. Pro: There will be no divisions based on party alone.
1.1.1. Con: Parties are weak in the US.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Elections make incumbents responsible for their own districts, but not for what their party does in Congress.
1.1.1.2. Pro: Congress is quite fragemented.
1.1.1.3. Con: The party provides candidates more electoral support than any other group.
1.1.1.4. Con: The weakness of parties is irrelevant, their existence causes partisanship. Comparatively, in a USA without parties this problem will not exist.
1.1.2. Pro: Partisanship would reduce as people will not have to associate with one party or the other. Party identification would not happen.
1.1.2.1. Pro: A reduction in partisanship, reduces the mindless party bickering that stops anything from getting done in legislative bodies.
1.1.2.1.1. Con: Or it may increase the amount of bickering and difficulties, since instead of two factions, there are many people more trying \(or failing\) to reach agreements.
1.1.3. Con: The official, political dismantlement of parties would not stop individuals from analyzing politicians' views to place them into parties.
1.1.4. Con: If it was just suddenly removed, Americans would still be partisan. Culture wouldn't just change in a moment. The desire of attachment to a group that has long been fostered would still be there, and politicians would mostly still have to decide which ideology to appeal to in order to get votes.
1.1.4.1. Con: Bipartisan thinking is unique to countries with only two parties. And even bipartisan countries have a great number of people dissatisfied with only two choices.
1.1.4.2. Con: People would have the opportunity to ask themselves what they actually think and believe if they had infinite choices instead of two doors to choose from.
1.1.4.2.1. Con: In a political election, it's wholly impractical to present an infinite number of choices on a ballot.
1.1.4.3. Pro: Political parties were formed by individuals with loosely-aligned political views. In the absence of a strict two-party system, people would still align themselves by their political views.
1.2. Con: Political parties allow for elected officials to form majorities and pass agendas through Congress as opposed to individuals who will disagree and block governance.
1.2.1. Pro: It would take far more time to convince individual members of Congress to vote on a specific bill than it would to convince a party.
1.2.2. Con: Political parties may actually prevent legislation from passing by disallowing members to vote against party lines.
1.3. Con: The two-party system weeds out the extreme candidates in the primary stage and finalizes on candidates with more centrist views.
1.3.1. Pro: In the 2016 Republican primary, there were many candidates, and the winner received a small percentage of the vote.
1.3.2. Con: The two party system can also produce extreme candidates in a scenario where the electorate is heavily polarised.
1.3.2.1. Pro: In the 2016 Republican primary, the two-party system did not weed out the most extreme candidate.
1.3.3. Con: This may not necessarily be a bad thing. Radical politics is not necessarily always bad. Radical leftist and feminist politics led to workers and females getting more rights and protections.
1.3.4. Pro: With no parties in place, there are likely to be many candidates on the ballot. This increases the chances that an extreme candidate will win the election with just a small fraction of the vote.
1.4. Con: Party membership is a significant motivator that inspires people to vote. Without it people would feel less of a personal connection to candidates.
1.5. Pro: Office holders will be able to vote for each issue on its merits and will not simply be obliged to follow the party.
1.5.1. Con: Office-holders are not bound to vote a certain way just because of their party affiliation. They can, and often do, cross party lines to vote their conscience.
1.5.2. Pro: Party whips keep elected party members in line and limit their ability to vote autonomously and often in support of legislation proposed by the other party.
1.5.3. Pro: Laws against horsetrading prevent elected officials from voting against party lines.
1.6. Pro: More views may be represented in legislative bodies as candidates with opinions distinct from those of parties now stand a chance of getting elected.
1.6.1. Pro: Independent candidates who previously lost to parties because of a lack of resources may now be able to compete more fairly.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Parties are better able to advertise their candidates due to greater financial resources.
1.6.1.2. Pro: Candidates aligned with a specific party also enjoy a head start, as people may choose to vote for them regardless of whether they know them or not due to party identification.
1.6.2. Pro: Parties often censor certain views or moderate them. This may allow newer more radical voices to spring up and be heard.
1.6.3. Pro: This mechanism of decentralization allows regional actors access to power and therefore allows discourse to shift to more regional issues, that were previously ignored as opposed to national issues.
1.7. Con: This would cause a large number of candidates to run for a single office, reducing the chances of one person gaining more than 50% of the votes.
1.7.1. Con: There are many voting schemes that could be used to select a winner.
1.7.2. Pro: Therefore, elected officials may not necessarily be true representatives of their constituents.
1.8. Pro: A wider range of issues is likely to be discussed in a world where the political agenda is not shaped by just two parties, but is rather shaped by individual voices.
1.8.1. Pro: Parties often choose to ignore issues due to fear of a democratic backlash and electoral loss. Independent candidates are likelier to bring these issues up and discuss them.
1.8.1.1. Con: Independent candidates may also fear electoral defeat and therefore may not shed light on certain issues.
1.8.2. Pro: Voters whose views were not represented before, are likely to come out and vote as a result of this.
1.9. Pro: This will promote honesty in debates over issues.
1.9.1. Con: Not belonging to a party does not necessarily make one automatically more honest.
1.9.2. Pro: Parties have the platform and resources necessary for spinning issues to achieve desired electoral responses. Individual candidates may be dishonest, but won't be dishonest on the same level as parties.
1.10. Con: Reforming the two party system is better than eliminating it altogether.
1.10.1. Pro: The approach should be to [reform the way the 2-Party system operates in Congress](https://www.kialo.com/we-need-reform-of-the-congressional-2-party-rules-18537/18537.0=18537.1/=18537.1) by implementing [Shared Legislative Power \(SLP\)](http://goo.gl/Qczn7a).
1.11. Pro: Washington was against a two party system. As a primary author of the system his opposition to having two parties carries considerable weight.
1.12. Con: There will be confusion as to how an office holder might vote in the future.
1.12.1. Con: Office holders will still have to run in elections and declare their stances on issues.
1.12.2. Con: If an office holder votes on an issue such that their constituents disagree, then they can be voted out.
1.12.3. Pro: With no party mechanism to bind them to their word and electoral promises, elected officials may choose to shift stances.