Discussion Title: Should the United Kingdom Ban the Burqa and Niqab?

1. A ban on the Burqa and Niqab should be introduced in the United Kingdom.
1.1. Pro: Covering the face leads to security complications.
1.1.1. Pro: A covered face makes it impossible to identify a person through CCTV.
1.1.1.1. Con: It's not \(yet\) a citizen's duty to be identifiable on CCTV. Governments can anyway track all your movements through cellphone location data. Whether that's a good thing is a different matter.
1.1.2. Con: If so, than the ban shouldn't be on burkas, but rather on any items of clothing that cover the face.
1.1.2.1. Pro: Hoodies have already been banned in [some shopping centres](http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/kent/4534903.stm), [for some people with ASBOS](https://www.compoundsecurity.co.uk/security-news/banned-from-wearing-hoodie), and in [some whole towns](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-merseyside-34590878)
1.1.2.2. Pro: Doing this allows the UK to not be discriminating against innocent people who wear these particular garments but would stop others who wish to hide their faces using scarves for nefarious reasons.
1.1.3. Con: A blanket ban is a disproportionate solution. Requiring the removal of the burqa or niqab in certain places would solve the problem, and a total prohibition on wearing is therefore not supported.
1.1.4. Con: Many security complications are easily handled.  [Airport security just request anything covering a face to be lifted](https://www.quora.com/How-are-Muslim-womens-faces-checked-at-airport-security-to-confirm-their-identity), and can offer a private room/female staff member, if requested.
1.1.5. Pro: If a group of hooligans with their faces covered attacked you on the street, the risk posed by them covering their face would matter more than their individual freedom to do so.
1.2. Con: Such a ban is unbefitting of a liberal democracy.
1.2.1. Pro: Moral authority should be the starting point from which any legislation is created within a society. This arbitrary ban would undermine such moral authority, thereby weakening the role it is supposed to play.
1.2.1.1. Con: Morality is not objective. Thus there cannot be one moral authority from which to draw legislation.
1.2.2. Pro: The ban would be un-Western as it contradicts the value of tolerance.
1.2.2.1. Pro: It would be hypocritical to praise freedoms, as is often done in Western democracies, and then infringe on them.
1.2.3. Con: One might also argue that a burqa/niqab are instruments of an institution that in itself is not liberal in nature and does not share the same democratic values where every voice is equal.
1.3. Con: The Burqa and Niqab are longstanding cultural traditions which would then be interrupted, causing distress for both Muslim individuals and communities.
1.3.1. Con: While it is appreciated that they are long standing Muslim traditions, the United Kingdom is not a Muslim country, it is one of mixed race and faith and is traditionally Christian in denomination.
1.4. Con: A tolerant society rather then a ban is more attractive to young people then a society which tries to control them by telling what to wear.
1.5. Pro: Banning the Burqa would reduce the cultural influence Islam imposes on the UK.
1.5.1. Con: Banning a religious symbol will have very little practical effect on limiting the effect of other cultures on the UK society. Nothing real is achieved by forcing this upon people, it is purely a gesture to the populist movement.
1.5.2. Con: There is no cultural imposition for nobody is forcing anybody in the UK to wear a burqa against their own volition.
1.5.3. Pro: Banning is strong symbolical act of dominance. Laws of the land codify cultural norms.
1.5.3.1. Con: That is probably true. But the cultural norms that are currently codified in liberal democracies are about the individual's freedom to choose, not about imposing certain cultural norms. Focusing on the latter would hurt the former.
1.5.4. Con: A ban is more likely to provoke resentment and as such prevent cultural assimilation of newly arrived migrant groups who would increasingly define themselves in opposition to what they see as hostile government policies.
1.5.5. Con: This is not just about immigrants but will also affect Muslim British citizens whose families may have emigrated generations ago.
1.5.6. Pro: UK society is already exposed to significant cultural influence of the Islam by taking in many Muslim refugees.
1.5.6.1. Con: The UK chose to engage with Islamic nations, through colonisation and trade, any cultural adaption as a result is its responsibility to integrate.
1.6. Pro: Covering of the face affects people's ability to integrate fully into society.
1.6.1. Con: Society is not fixed, it could adapt to find ways to accept people who covered their faces, for whatever reason.
1.6.2. Con: Many other things affect peoples ability to integrate fully into society, but would never be banned.
1.6.3. Pro: Facial expressions are a primary means of [non-verbal communication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nonverbal_communication).
1.6.3.1. Con: Singling out a religious practice because humanity is used to seeing faces is arguably illogical. Phone calls and text-based communication happen all the time, and humanity is adapting to the fact that you cannot always see the other person's face.
1.6.4. Pro: It is deliberate act of self-ostracisation in a society where it's not the norm.
1.6.4.1. Con: Being an act of "self-ostracisation" might make wearing the burqa undesirable, but it does not follow that it should be banned. It is not illegal to choose to stay at home and not interact with the outside world, for example.
1.6.5. Con: For some people the only other option is to stay at home. That option is worse for integration.
1.6.6. Pro: Covering the face makes some jobs impossible to be carried out effectively, such as teaching.
1.6.6.1. Con: In various Islamic countries, such as [Pakistan](https://books.google.se/books?id=XRpHBQAAQBAJ&pg=PA142&lpg=PA142&dq=pakistan+burqa+teachers&source=bl&ots=CzGXS6pUsW&sig=GmYi0OSymkxgTYG4mYKGaiqHKwg&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjkrICNuJbZAhWBiiwKHXGhAc0Q6AEIRDAH#v=onepage&q=pakistan%20burqa%20teachers&f=false), teachers wear burqas. Whatever your bias against this, there is nothing to suggest that this directly affects the quality of their teaching.
1.6.6.2. Con: If this was true than on-line learning would not work.
1.6.6.3. Con: Even if this were true, it would only be an argument for a ban on covering the face in those occupations.
1.6.7. Con: Prejudice against Muslims and religious-based division may occur as a result of the ban.
1.6.7.1. Con: The ban might also create more common ground and decrease the anti-muslim sentiment as the burqa/niqab are polarising symnols that promote segregation
1.6.7.2. Con: It would be harder to identify muslim women without burka's or hijab's and thus is more likely to reduce discrimination.
1.6.7.3. Pro: The ban would simply exacerbate the problem of division along religious lines, which is already seen in some areas of the West.
1.6.7.4. Pro: Banning the burqa or hijab will only increase anti-Muslim sentiment. If you want integration, forcing it through questionable human rights violations is not the way to get two cultures to reconcile.
1.6.8. Con: Acceptance is the key to integration, not antagonizing.
1.6.8.1. Pro: -> See 1.6.7.4.
1.6.8.2. Con: It is hard to accept or trust anyone who hides their face. No matter the reason, nothing personal.
1.6.8.3. Con: Acceptance is a two-way street and foremost a responsibility for the newcomers. Adaptation has to happen in the other direction.
1.6.8.4. Pro: There will always be people different from you. Society has to learn to overcome differences rather than reject them.
1.7. Pro: A ban on the Burqa and Niqab is important in guaranteeing women's freedom.
1.7.1. Con: Taking away a woman's choice isn't advancing women's rights or human rights.
1.7.1.1. Pro: Paradoxically, in the name of women's freedom such a law would forbid women from wearing a specific piece of clothes, thus harming women's freedom.
1.7.1.1.1. Pro: Banning the Burqa and Niqab would impinge on the individual freedom of that person.
1.7.1.1.2. Pro: Such a ban would be an infringement of people's freedom of religion, which is a fundamental human right.
1.7.1.1.2.1. Con: The Burqa and Niqab are merely cultural traditions in the first place, and are not supported by the Quran.
1.7.1.1.2.1.1. Con: It is not the role of the state to determine whether the beliefs underpinning a person's choice of clothing are legitimate. Whether or not the burqa or niqab are mandated or required by the Quran is not relevant.
1.7.1.1.2.1.2. Con: Following this logic, the government could also ban Easter and Christmas, as they're not explicitly mentioned in the Bible and are a "mere cultural tradition" with pagan roots.
1.7.1.1.2.1.2.1. Con: The comparison is nonsensical, as one is a holiday without personal consequences, while the other one is a personal, gender-specific and continous oppressive devise.
1.7.1.1.2.1.2.2. Con: The hypothetical possibility to ban a good thing is no argument against banning a bad thing.
1.7.1.1.2.2. Con: "freedom of religion" does not entail "freedom to act upon your religion". It merely entails freedom to hold religious beliefs and to prevent others from persecuting you for having them.   A ban on a garment is not a ban on a religious belief.
1.7.1.1.2.3. Pro: Religious expression is, whether in practice or in choice of clothing, the very measure of a free society.
1.7.1.1.2.4. Pro: Because these two pieces of clothing are specific to Muslim dress, such a ban would rightly be seen as anti-Muslim.
1.7.1.1.2.4.1. Con: The kuran does not mention the burqa or niqab. These garments are cultural in nature, not religious.
1.7.2. Con: All women have pressure put on them to conform to culture norms of dress and body type. It is coercion of women that should be outlawed, not one type of clothing - as some may wear it freely.
1.7.2.1. Pro: Coercion restricts autonomy and is therefore counter to consensual action.
1.7.3. Con: The ban would make it impossible for Muslim women who wanted to wear the burqa/niqab from getting employment, thereby removing all possibilities of economic freedom.
1.7.3.1. Con: One might argue that the burqa/niqab is what is preventing muslim women from finding employment \(especially in sectors where there are uniforms or sectors in which there are dress codes out of safety concerns\)
1.7.4. Con: The more you try to enforce such a ban the more press and attention it will get attracting more young women to wear it in protest.
1.7.5. Con: Some adherents of Islam strongly believe that a woman should not be seen out of the house without proper attire. A ban on the Burqa/Niqab would likely result in more women no longer being allowed to leave the house \(as ordered by their family or husband\).
1.7.5.1. Con: Then the harmful environment of religous fundamentalism is the real issue, as opposed to a ban on the burqa/niqab.
1.7.6. Pro: Many Muslim women feel forced or obligated to wear such items by their families. This ban would give them the freedom not to.
1.7.6.1. Con: Many women choose to wear the burqa [of their own volition](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/womens-life/11120588/Muslim-women-reveal-why-they-wear-the-veil-burqa-school-debate.html).
1.7.6.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.7.4.
1.7.7. Pro: The Burqa and Niqab are associated with oppression and patriarchy in many societies.
1.7.7.1. Con: Similarly a ban on the Burqa and Niqab would be an act of oppression from our society.
1.7.7.2. Pro: It is reminiscent of the Taliban's imposition, who made it [compulsory](https://www.hrw.org/news/2009/07/02/beyond-burqa) for women to wear the burqa.
1.7.7.3. Pro: The burqa and the niqab are physically restraining, making it difficult to do certain activities or pursue certain jobs.
1.7.8. Con: A blanket ban does nothing to solve the problem of the coercion of Muslim women.
1.7.8.1. Pro: A blanket ban does not guarantee that a woman in a coercive relationship would be allowed to do everything she did previously but without the burqa or niqab.
1.7.8.2. Con: Though it does not solve all issues of female Muslim oppression, it at least improves upon one aspect of it.
1.7.8.2.1. Pro: It could represent a significant milestone in defining the relationship between religious strictures and legal rights that could have a much wider impact.
1.8. Pro: A range of other countries, many similar to the UK, have introduced the ban.
1.8.1. Pro: France, The Netherlands, Bulgaria, Belgium and Switzerland  [have all placed a ban](https://www.express.co.uk/news/world/652842/Burka-Niqab-Islamic-Face-veil-Ban-UK-Fine-France-Belgium-Netherlands-Europe-Muslim-dress) on wearing burqas in public to eliminate its negative impact on security and social integration.
1.8.2. Con: Many of the countries that have any legislation in place have[restricted](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/life/burka-bans-the-countries-where-muslim-women-cant-wear-veils/) the wearing of the Burka rather than an outright ban. There is a very significant difference.
1.8.3. Con: The UK has similarities to a vast array of countries as a result of its colonial legacy. So equally the UK is now similar to those countries who actively encourage the Burqa and Niqab, depending on what you choose to compare.
1.8.4. Con: Just because other countries have done so, does not automatically mean it is right for the UK to do so. Each country is unique and not a group of lemmings playing follow the leader.
1.8.5. Con: The ban in France, has had [significant negative effects](https://www.thelocal.fr/20151012/france-burqa-ban-five-years-on-we-create-a-monster).
1.8.6. Pro: Other countries, even those that are predominantly Muslim such as Chad and Turkey have enforced the ban.
1.9. Con: -> See 1.6.7.
1.10. Con: The government should not have the ability to dictate what people can and cannot wear.
1.10.1. Pro: -> See 1.7.6.1.
1.10.2. Pro: -> See 1.7.1.1.1.
1.10.3. Con: Walking around in nazi uniform, wearing nazi symbols or as a KKK member should not be allowed. So yes, authorities should have something to say about what is not allowed to be worn in public.
1.10.3.1. Con: This confuses wearing the burqa/niqab with being a proponent of fundamentalism. While these outfits represent racial hatred, violence, and murder, the burqa or niqab is an item of clothing associated with religion that is peaceful and non-discriminatory.
1.10.3.2. Con: It is not illegal to wear either the Nazi or the KKK uniforms in the UK. Neither have been banned by law and people still wear them to fancy dress parties.
1.10.3.3. Con: Fascism is not a religion and is not a protected category of humanity. Further, fascism represents an actual threat to all of humanity, whereas Islam only threatens the psychological well-being of the xenophobic.
1.10.4. Pro: -> See 1.1.2.
1.10.5. Con: The government has a right to impinge on one person's liberty if it puts the security and liberties of other citizens at risk.
1.10.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.
1.10.6. Con: The British public is [in favour of the ban](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/islam-muslim-veil-burka-ban-burkini-poll-uk-britain-france-a7218386.html) and the government exists to represent its citizens' wishes.
1.10.6.1. Con: No matter how many people support the measure, this implies violating the rights of a fraction of the population
1.10.6.2. Con: The Government does not exist to represent it's citizens, it exists [to run the country](http://www.parliament.uk/about/how/role/parliament-government/). It is up to the citizens to vote in the Government they think will represent them, not the other way around.
1.10.6.3. Con: A [more recent poll](https://yougov.co.uk/news/2017/04/27/about-half-brits-support-burqa-ban/) showed those wanting the ban were no longer the majority.  48% were for the ban, 42% were against, 10% didn't know.
1.10.6.4. Con: The UK is not a direct democracy, and probably should not be, as it requires a well-informed, educated society to take optimum decisions.
1.11. Con: -> See 1.7.1.1.2.