Discussion Title: Should the government require parents to learn sign language if they have deaf child?

1. The government should require parents to learn sign language if they have a deaf child.
1.1. Con: Deaf children should focus on speech skills instead of learning sign language.
1.1.1. Con: Language access should be the number one priority. Learning sign language does not hinder deaf children's ability to learn speech skills at a later time.
1.1.2. Pro: The overwhelming majority of people does not know any sign language, so this would enable deaf people to interact with society better.
1.2. Con: after governments solve issues of crime and foreign invasion, then they can pretend to have the luxury to care about deaf children.
1.2.1. Con: Lack of access to language for people can lead to developmental delays \(including in psychological and behavioral development\) frustration and in extreme cases violent behavior. This can lead to lashing out in the form of crime. Additionally, it is not fair to say that the government should not care about deaf children because they have other, bigger issues. For deaf children and their families, this is an incredibly pressing issue that can be of the utmost importance.
1.3. Con: Parents may not have the resources to learn sign language.
1.3.1. Pro: Parents may not have the money to pay for classes to learn sign language.
1.3.1.1. Con: If the government requires the courses, they should be offered free of charge.
1.3.2. Pro: Parents may not have the time to learn sign language.
1.3.2.1. Con: During the first months, parents are immersed in childcare. It's improbable that they would not be able to find the time to acquire basic skills at least.
1.3.2.2. Pro: Raising a child is incredibly time consuming, and learning a language is also incredibly time consuming.
1.3.2.3. Con: Language access is of the utmost importance for deaf children, and time must be made available to start the child's exposure to language access at the earliest possible moment.
1.3.3. Pro: Parents in rural areas may not have access to someone who can teach them nearby.
1.3.3.1. Con: While not ideal, there are courses offered through the internet that could work well enough until the child is old enough to go to immersion camps and perhaps a deaf school
1.4. Pro: Language access at an early age is vital to make sure that the child is not behind developmentally.
1.4.1. Pro: Hearing children have access to language at day one: by the time deaf children are identified as deaf and the parents decide to use sign language, the window of opportunity for language development has shortened.
1.5. Con: Forcing the issue would be less effective than encouraging/supporting it.
1.5.1. Pro: New Zealand had [great success](https://i.stuff.co.nz/national/99662946/massive-upsurge-in-white-new-zealand-wanting-to-learn-te-reo) getting the Pākehā \(white\) population learning  te reo \(Maori, native language\).  This was done through public engagement and offering free courses/incentives.
1.5.2. Pro: There are many other classes which give parents better skills, for example toddler first aid, and classes/clubs for child development, eg scouts/swimming lessons.  These are all encouraged, not forced, and are successfully used in society.
1.6. Pro: [Baby sign](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baby_sign_language) is used for hearing babies to communicate at an early age, deaf children should have the same access.
1.7. Pro: Sign language is the native language of deaf people, and comes with a cultural identity outside of the language. Deaf children need access to that.