Discussion Title: Should use of disposable items be limited?

1. Use of disposable items should be limited.
1.1. Con: This would have negative effects on the world's economies.
1.2. Con: In many areas disposable items are necessary.
1.2.1. Pro: In medicine, many [sterile](https://www.quickmedical.com/professional/patient_care/disposable-medical-products.html) items like surgery covers, disinfectant and cleaning towels, sponges, gauze, etc are necessary. Instruments are packed in sterile bags after cleaning as well.
1.2.2. Pro: In emergency situations, disposable rescue blankets, water bottles, life vests, etc. are necessary to save lives.
1.2.3. Pro: People who work with food have to wear protective clothing and disposable gloves to make sure items are safe to eat.
1.2.4. Pro: Some disposable items, like nappies or wipes, are necessary for the wellbeing of young children.
1.3. Pro: Only through legislative measures do people reduce their plastic consumption.
1.4. Pro: It would cut the amount of pollution down by a significant amount.
1.4.1. Pro: If nothing is done to stop our disposal of plastic waste, by 2050 there will be [more plastic than fish](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2016/jan/19/more-plastic-than-fish-in-the-sea-by-2050-warns-ellen-macarthur) in the ocean.
1.4.2. Pro: Most disposable plastic items take thousands of years, if ever, to biodegrade - resulting in disastrous biodiversity consequences, particularly in oceans and waterways.
1.4.3. Con: Reusable items can be worse for the environment on one or multiple markers \(eg. water use for cotton instead of plastic bags\).
1.5. Con: Disposable, rapidly biodegradable items wouldn't be problematic.
1.6. Pro: Most of the disposable packaging used isn't even required to actually cover the product.
1.6.1. Pro: In many supermarkets, produce is covered in sheer plastic packaging.
1.6.2. Pro: Useless packaging such as those used for aesthetics could be removed.
1.7. Pro: Reusable alternatives could be easily developed.
1.7.1. Pro: There is greater incentives for companies to invest in this sort of R&D if they know they face financial penalties for continuing to work with disposable plastic items.
1.7.2. Con: It would cost a significant amount of money.
1.7.2.1. Con: Eventually, switching to reusable things will end up have been cheaper than continuing to produce disposables.
1.7.2.2. Pro: Reusable materials aren't as cheap as their disposable counter-parts.
1.7.2.2.1. Con: Cheaper reusable materials could be developed.