Discussion Title: Should Seattle pass a big-business tax to pay for homelessness and affordable housing services?

1. Seattle should pass a big-business tax to pay for homelessness and affordable housing services.
1.1. Con: Big business might move out of Seattle as a result of special taxation.
1.2. Pro: Without a state income tax or capital gains tax, this is Seattle's last best option to raise revenue.
1.2.1. Con: This is under the assumption that the State is the only one who can/should solve the problem.
1.3. Pro: Large businesses are directly responsible for Seattle's housing affordability and homelessness crises and should be required to pay to fix them.
1.3.1. Con: Seattle's homelessness crisis is a result of multiple system failures and broad societal problems - the blame cannot be placed entirely on the city's large businesses.
1.3.2. Con: Businesses have no moral obligation to pay for social issues that don't affect their bottom line.
1.4. Con: Large businesses such as Amazon are already doing enough to contribute to housing issues, for example, by supporting Mary's Place.
1.5. Con: The city already has enough money for homelessness issues, but it isn't spending the money wisely.
1.6. Con: There is no housing or homelessness crisis in Seattle.
1.6.1. Con: In 2017, Seattle was [14,000](https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/homeless/more-affordable-housing-only-way-to-solve-seattles-homeless-crisis-new-report-says/) short of affordable housing options.
1.7. Con: It is not the city government's role to fix the homelessness and affordability issues; that should be done by local communities and philanthropies.
1.7.1. Con: It is a government's duty to provide housing and reasonable living conditions to citizens who pay taxes, obey the law and participate in the political system.
1.8. Pro: Large businesses such as Amazon are making so much profit that the proposed tax will have no meaningful impact on their bottom lines.
1.8.1. Con: Large businesses plan and focus around every little meaningful impact on their profit margins.  If they find cheaper/better quality goods that go with that plan or they see a new tax coming, they will avoid or mitigate it.
1.8.2. Con: The impact that a tax has on a business is dependent on the proportion of profit, i.e. the tax rate, to be paid rather than on the amount of profit being made.
1.8.3. Pro: Big Business pay lower rates of tax than their employees who can not afford to live near work.