Discussion Title: Should the United States have more than two major political parties?

1. The United States political systems should have more than two major political parties.
1.1. Pro: With more third parties, people would not have to choose between the lesser of two evils all the time.
1.1.1. Pro: With more party platforms for voters to align with, there is the potential for a more nuanced result and representation in our government that more effectively approximates the views and values of the diverse citizenry.
1.1.1.1. Pro: People are unable to see 'grey' in their political discussions. Having a third, fourth or more sides would help create meaningful discussion instead of a Yes / No dichotomy.
1.1.1.1.1. Con: The parties are not philosophical channels. The debate is always for or against a certain measure - yes or no. Let the candidates in the primaries debate more broadly, and the media take care of the diversity of the discussion during a presidency.
1.1.1.1.1.1. Con: While the debate may always be for or against, there are many debates that go on at the same time \(healthcare,guns etc...\) so to assume that everyone agrees or disagrees in the same way on everything, based on their party, is naive.
1.1.1.1.2. Pro: Problems, especially those presented in politics, are often not black and white, yes or no. A means for multiple views provides for a well rounded perspective and by extension the best solution.
1.1.1.2. Pro: The two-party system nearly guarantees that each individual vote is a compromise.
1.1.1.3. Pro: If you agree with one point within a platform, it does not follow that you agree with all the other points. \(IE: A person might be both Pro-Life and Anti-2nd Amendment\)
1.1.1.3.1. Con: There are plenty of specific candidates to choose from within each party. There are republican candidates which are both pro-life and anti-2nd.
1.1.1.3.1.1. Con: These choices are made in primaries, which themselves suffer from 
a\) the chance of multiple candidates running, splitting factions of that rough half of the electorate, allowing a small fraction of it to choose the representative for all of it.
b\) low voter interest, and thus high incumbency, funding, and name recognition advantage.
Then, come general election, the broader electorate is given a binary choice, with anyone running outside only hurting the candidate closest to them ideologically.
1.1.1.3.2. Con: A multiparty system is not a viable solution for this problem since an unreasonably large number of parties would be needed to cover all possible agreement/disagreement combinations on the major issues.
1.1.1.3.2.1. Con: A party would not be needed for every viewpoint, merely the more common ones.
1.1.1.3.2.2. Con: There are many, well functioning countries in the world with multiple parties. They have "smaller tents", and shifting coalitions based on which parties have how many seats. It doesn't require absolute fragmentation, just more flexibility and variance than is afforded by two, monolithic parties.
1.1.1.4. Con: Compromises are often inefficient mixtures of two opposite philosophies. Two opposite solutions aren't allways compatible. It's better to let each candidate do his best and apply the measures he's convinced are most adequate, instead of ending up with a inconsistent compromise.
1.1.1.5. Con: In multi-party systems, coalitions of parties rather learn to have a homogenous program led by the largest parties in the coallition.In the end the voter may end up with even less choice, and a weaker voice which is drowned out by the large parties.
1.1.2. Pro: People whose views are not currently represented by either of the dominant parties would have their voices represented by new political parties instead.
1.1.3. Con: Additional parties would not mean that there would be any less "lesser of two evils" voting. The United States has several political parties, but the vast majority of the vote ends up going to the two main parties.
1.1.3.1. Con: More people would vote for 3rd parties if the 2-parties and their pundits didn't fear-monger and shame 3rd party voters.
1.2. Pro: In representative government, more parties leads to politicians feeling more confident to run on what they truly believe in, rather than "flip-flopping" on policy.
1.3. Pro: The two party system has diluted both parties because the race for majority control has caused the democrats to absorb the liberals and the republicans the conservatives. Whereas these individuals who align farther right and left running in their own parties exclusively would require more cooperation within congress to resolve issues.
1.4. Con: Even though there are only two parties, there are a lot of candidates with very different programs and opinions to choose from, and more parties wouldn't necessarily mean more choice.
1.4.1. Pro: In the US every large set of opinions, represented by candidates, has an opportunity to be in power by winning the primaries. In multi-party systems most small parties can never dream of coming near power, and have their voice completely drowned out by the coalition or major parties.
1.4.1.1. Con: By dividing the two parties, and having new ones, smaller parties must be granted policy concessions inorder to form a majority coalition. This accomplishes what should happen, but often doesn't, in intra-party politics \(which isn't always done publicly\) through inter-party politics.
1.4.1.2. Con: Smaller parties can form coalitions and such coalitions can reach a majority to govern \(as is day to day business in parliametary democracies\)
1.4.2. Con: With only 2-parties, candidates are forced to appeal to the more diverse election-constituency which negatively impacts said candidate's relationship with their primary-constituency\(see Richard Fenno's \[1977\] types of constituencies\).
1.4.3. Con: Although individual politicians may have unique perspectives and values, the Whip system in Congress ensures that the parties vote predominantly as a block, hiding nuance and individual differences. A two-party system is the political equivalent of two large animals fighting for dominance with only one of two outcomes possible - the largest \(not the most persuasive or effective\) wins.
1.4.3.1. Con: There are few workable alternatives to the Whip system.
1.4.3.2. Con: Can anyone argue the decisions made by the Trump administration would have been made by the republican party regardless who won? Same with Reagan, Obama, any president. Voters can choose whatever ideas they like in the primary elections.
1.5. Con: Even under multi-party systems, in practice there are always two main players.
1.5.1. Pro: Two parties is a natural equilibrium, in any election involving 3 or more candidates, many supporters for the weakest candidate will move to the top 2 candidates to find the lesser of two evils based on their own beliefs and desires.
1.5.2. Con: These two main players often change over time thanks to the fact that there are more than two parties.
1.5.3. Pro: Germany and Sweden have two major parties and many smaller parties which never get a majority on their own.
1.5.3.1. Con: The two major parties also rarely get a majority on their own
1.5.3.2. Con: Smaller parties don't need a majority on their own, as they can form coalitions.
1.5.4. Pro: Extremist parties tend to form coalitions anyway, meaning they fall into one of the two main camps.
1.5.5. Pro: Ultimately, the voter still chooses between two camps but through a more complicated and less stable system.
1.5.6. Con: Having more options when voting enhances the democratic nature of a country
1.5.7. Con: There will always be two main streams, conservative and progressive, but with additional parties adding choice and nuance as to how politics should be implemented.
1.6. Pro: The two-party system disincentivizes political compromise between elected officials.
1.6.1. Pro: In multi-party systems, coalitions are often necessary to get essential business done. When paired with the possibility of a no-confidence vote, this can encourage politicians to find common ground and learn the art and skills of compromise for the common good.
1.6.2. Con: Opposite views aren't always compatible, and then a compromise is often worse than both extremes.
1.7. Con: This is the way it has always been, it would be too hard to change it now.
1.7.1. Pro: The laws are set up for a two-party system. There would have to be major re-writing of several laws to make this possible. It is unlikely that the current government would make those changes because they are a part of the two-party system and would be unable to give up their power.
1.7.1.1. Con: Even inside the current system there is varied beliefs and party dissent.  Those feeling left as a minority inside their current party may welcome the change as it may give them more power.
1.7.1.2. Con: It is unclear which laws this claim refers to.
1.7.1.3. Pro: The first-past-the-post nature of our political system is the source of the need for a two party political system. Additional parties would not address the problem.
1.7.1.3.1. Con: This is identifying the system/laws that would need to change, but changing laws is literally what politics is for, and saying something is politically difficult is not a reason to not do something, so the original comment saying it was difficult was either referring to practically difficult, in which case it was incorrect, as your comment actually points out \(by saying exactly what needs to be changed\), or politically difficult, and therefore irrelevant.
1.7.2. Con: Change and evolution are natural in society.
1.7.3. Con: This argument is an example of a "sunk cost fallacy" [\(BigThink: Julia Galef\)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vpnxd31y0Fo) when one makes decisions based on an attachment to the past instead of considering the possible gains in the future.
1.7.3.1. Con: If the potential costs of a change are too great, the system will collapse before any benefit is recognized.
1.7.4. Con: They said the same against the vote for women, the vote for african-americans, against the establishment of democracy, etc.

Yet, all happened...
1.7.5. Con: It's not that hard. This is not, by and large, a requirement, it is simply the result of how we vote. If we changed to a system like [STAR Voting](http://www.equal.vote) the two party system would largely fade on it's own, with only a few procedural changes. So if the laws governing how votes are counted \(mostly laws, not constitutional amendments\) are written in a different way, we will get more than 2 parties. Politically difficult, perhaps, but not legally difficult, for the most part.
1.7.6. Pro: Even though it maybe could be changed now, considering the potentially huge drawbacks \(see Cons\) and the \(temporary\) instability that a change would create, it's not worth changing now.
1.7.7. Con: Parties that are not the Democrats and Republicans have existed in the past in the United States, such as the Federalists, Nullifiers, and Opposition. Their roles in history have largely been obscured over time, possibly in part to the revisionist nature of American history as taught, but they are there and they were not insignificant.
1.8. Con: New parties without an established reputation could result in people elected on false pretences.
1.8.1. Con: Old parties with an established reputation could result in people elected on false pretenses as well, because voters cannot ever be completely informed about any candidate. If two parties have a duopoly on the media, almost anybody can get elected anyway.
1.9. Con: There are in fact, several political parties existing in the United States. However, the most popular parties are the two main ones, Democratic and Republican parties because they simply appeal to the broadest populations.
1.9.1. Pro: Among them are the Independent party, Libertarian party, Green party, and the Constitution party.
1.9.2. Con: They are not the most popular simply because they appeal to the most people, they are the most popular, and to such a large degree, because our voting system is ill suited to more than 2 candidates, so we have adjusted our process to ensure 2 clear front-runners and everyone else can be safely ignored as having 0 chance of winning in most elections.
1.10. Con: Third-party votes detract from the major party political candidates.
1.10.1. Con: This is not a bad thing if it happens on both sides of the political spectrum equally. A successful green party candidate, for instance, might "take away" votes from a Democrat, but a Libertarian will similarly "take away" votes from a Republican.
1.10.1.1. Con: It is very rare that such will happen simultaneously, let alone equally.  Far more often one side fragments while the other presents a united front.
1.10.2. Con: There is no guarantee that the major party political candidates deserve more votes and recognition than a candidate for another party.
1.10.3. Con: This is just natural consequence of a larger set of opinions and political beliefs being represented in the government.
1.10.4. Pro: If there are more different parties on one side \(left/right\) than on the other, one side would have the advantage of having a unified strong party, and would easily win regardless of it's merits.
1.10.5. Con: In a multi-party system, there is no such thing as a "third-party" vote. After an election, parties form coalitions, effectively representing a broad spectrum of voters.
1.11. Pro: Having more political parties may produce a higher voter turnout.
1.11.1. Pro: Higher voter turnout in a fair multi-party system lends itself to a higher degree of democratic consensus between a higher number of willing political participants. A greater diversity of opinions and lived experiences will be recognized, represented, and served.
1.11.2. Con: More political parties, in the current climate, would most likely lead to more confusion with respect to the issues, not more voters. Many more are likely to abstain from a process that furthers division.
1.11.3. Pro: During an election with multiple candiates inside one party, a candidate dropping out midway through the process disenfranchises that candidate's voters, while more parties would at least show how many other voters felt similarly.
1.11.4. Con: There's no reason for voters not to show up at least in the primaries for the presidential elections, because there's as much diversity of opinion within the parties as between different parties in other countries.
1.11.4.1. Con: Members of both parties are heavily constrained by their electorate's popular opinion, e.g a republican that advocates for pro-choice wouldn't stand a chance.
1.11.5. Con: The question of how the country is managed by a 2-party versus multi-party system is more important than minor differences in voter turnout. An 80% voter turnout in a bad system is worse than a 70% turnout in a better system.
1.12. Pro: A multi-party system would reduce corruption, thereby producing a more democratic process.
1.12.1. Pro: With more parties, corruption and lies are easier to vote away from.
1.12.1.1. Con: more parties would dilute the options, lowering the amount of votes needed to win. may make it easier for the corrupt.
1.12.2. Pro: It is easy for big business to control and corrupt two party apparatuses. It is harder to control, say, five.
1.12.2.1. Pro: Having more candidates as potential winners of an election can make it more difficult for outside players to back the winner and win influence over that candidate.
1.13. Con: Both major political parties have all the money and a third party would have trouble raising enough money to be competitive.
1.13.1. Con: That it would be hard does not mean it wouldn't be right.
1.13.2. Con: Money is mostly accumulated through donations, which can be shifted as the donor sees other options.
1.14. Pro: A two party system \(almost by definition\) increases the division among people by populating the polar opposites in the ideological spectrum.
1.15. Pro: With a 2 party system, whenever there is a change in power, the immediate focus is most often on undoing the previous years of change in policy, keeping progress to a minimum.
1.16. Pro: Other countries have a more varied political system and there is less volatility.
1.16.1. Pro: If a portion of one or both sides shifted far to the fringes, a center coalition can \(and in many cases has\) form, keeping the political norms more stable than when swinging between two, sometimes very far apart, parties.
1.16.1.1. Con: Actually multi-party systems usually either oscillate between left and right \(France ever since the 70's\), or keep forming the same large coalition \(GroKo in Germany\). Large coalitions are quite criticised because people are never really able to vote for change, and most of all they are very inefficient and take forever to make decisions \(decisions which tend to be unadequate compromises\)
1.16.2. Con: In a system ruled by majority vote, too many options might make it difficult to have majority agreement on issues.
1.16.3. Con: There is not sufficient evidence for this claim. As a counter example, it can be argued that the National Socialist party of Germany wouldn't be able to come to power in 1930s if German Parliamentary elections were based on two party system instead.