Discussion Title: Should U.S. Presidents Have the Power to Issue Pardons?

1. U.S. presidents should not have the power to issue pardons.
1.1. Con: The use of pardons is an important part of the general principle that the US legal system is premised on protecting the innocent, rather than punishing the guilty.
1.1.1. Pro: As each decision reached by a superior court is binding [precedent](https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/stare_decisis) for future trials, the courts adopt a maxim that [hard cases make bad law](https://www.phrases.org.uk/meanings/hard-cases-make-bad-law.html). This means that individual cases often err on the side of unfairness, rather than set a precedent that might be unfair to future litigants.
1.1.1.1. Pro: The pardon plays a vital role in alleviating injustice to individuals which is unfairly caused by the rigid application of laws. As Hamilton said, it allows for["exceptions in favor of unfortunate guilt."](http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/fed74.asp)
1.1.2. Con: This protects people who are guilty.
1.1.2.1. Con: This protects both people who are guilty and people who are innocent but judged guilty.
1.1.2.1.1. Con: Pardoning may protect both people who are guilty and people who are innocent but judged to be guilty, but it does it arbitrarily and without any kind of due process.
1.1.2.2. Con: It can be used to protect the guilty, but not necessarily.
1.1.2.3. Pro: Pardons, by definition, do not protect the innocent. The innocent may be "exonerated", only the guilty can be pardoned. A pardon is state action saying "Yes, you are guilty, but we forgive you." Accepting a pardon is an admission of guilt, they were simply never intended as a protection against wrongful conviction.
1.1.3. Pro: When used responsibly, pardons are a "last hope" for wrongly convicted people or those whose sentence is excessive.
1.1.4. Pro: A legal system premised on protecting the innocent means a legal system where accusations require good evidence. Any other system would implicitly or explicitly give some the authoritarian power to legally reprimand others without evidence.
1.1.5. Pro: Sadly, innocent people have been put in prison. With a stroke of a pen, the President can Right what is Wrong. Or people were given a ridiculous amount of time for "a joint" or were falsely accused. The laws on the books need to be examined and many corrected/updated....in the meantime, the President should indeed be allowed to pardon someone.
1.1.6. Con: Guilty people are more likely to get involved in a criminal act again, compared to the rest of the community. Pardons release guilty back into the community, which increases the criminal potential of the community. This puts the innocent at risk, which is against the mentioned premise of the US legal system.
1.2. Pro: Pardons are at a serious risk of corruption, which makes people lose faith in the government.
1.2.1. Pro: Government credibility took a major jot after the Watergate scandal and Nixon was pardoned.
1.2.2. Pro: The POTUS can have his underlings carry out illegal actions, and then pardon them. There currently exists the possibility of Trump pardoning members of his campaign for colluding with Russia.
1.2.3. Pro: Bill Clinton [pardoned 140 people in his last day of office](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Clinton_pardon_controversy#Pardons_and_commutations_signed_on_President_Clinton's_final_day_in_office) including several former political donors.
1.2.3.1. Con: Many of his pardons were symbolic, that is, those he pardoned had already served their full sentence, and therefore had paid their debt to society.
1.2.4. Pro: The basis of democracy is that all are equal. The right to absolve oneself of any criminal responibility completely undermines this core concept, and greatly contributes to diminished respect for government institutions.
1.2.4.1. Con: The U.S. is not a true democracy. It is a representative democracy based in a federation. Until every person eligible to vote is able to vote each and any issue the system is not a true democracy.
1.2.4.2. Con: This is clearly false , when people are elected they have more power than the unelected  including in this case for the president  pardoning power.
1.2.5. Pro: Pardons could be used on a quid pro quo basis to elicit unethical or immoral favors in return.
1.2.6. Con: One can not take into account whether law destroys faith in some institution or not. Faith is not measurable hence this claim is invalid.
1.2.6.1. Con: The point of countering corruption isn’t to instill faith in government, it’s to protect the people, regardless if they “have faith” or not.
1.2.6.2. Con: In the context of this thesis, faith represents the government's ability to act in the best interests of the electorate. Polling institutions regularly measure political beliefs. While this system may vary as opinions ebb and flow, it can provide a unit of measurement regarding "faith" in regards to government efficacy or validity.
1.2.7. Pro: The Founders had two worries, dictatorship and corruption, but did not imagine political parties. Pardons were a way they tried to balance the power of the other branches, but the way that votes are counted forces parties into existence, and changes the dynamics to make pardons ripe for a means of corruption.
1.2.8. Pro: A head of state able to pardon themselves is a head of state who, de facto, cannot commit any crime whilst in office. As this is clearly a fallacious claim, no head of state should ever have the power to pardon or investigate themselves.
1.2.8.1. Pro: In the U.S., the president acts as the head of the Executive Branch, and it's primary task is to enforce the laws. All laws should be judged, formed, and enforced by neutral 3rd parties. To put someone in charge of their own punishment would be unjust.
1.2.9. Pro: A head of state with the power to pardon themselves is one of the hallmarks of a dictatorship. A situation traditionally seen as undesirable.
1.2.9.1. Pro: It is a necessary but not sufficient condition of dictatorship.
1.2.10. Con: The people voted for the person to be President of the United States.  It is the Presidents power to pardon.  If that person cannot be trusted with this power, then they should not have been voted for as President.
1.2.11. Con: While there are outlier cases \(Scooter Libby, some of Clinton's late hour pardons of allies\) most pardons do not reward political allies, but instead, advance the interests of random individual citizens.
1.2.12. Pro: When a crooked president is elected, the pardon power can & likely would create more crimes by that president.
1.2.12.1. Con: Then Citizens think twice before electing a President they want to represent them.
1.2.13. Pro: Pardons might create more corruption if done by a corrupt president
1.2.14. Con: A large portion of the government is subject to corruption. A wider solution that prevents corruption as a whole would be more suited to this issue.
1.2.15. Con: Corruption is a criminal act and can be subjected to judicial oversight.
1.2.16. Con: The less faith people have in the government, the more likely they will be to become activistic and change the rules of government through democratic means.
1.2.17. Pro: The President is at risk of being influenced by external forces thus undermining the law and the decision of the people and parliament.
1.2.18. Pro: Pardons which have no basis and require no explanation are too powerful to be considered safe for a society governed by its people. They could even become so untethered that a president could even pardon himself.
1.2.19. Con: While the pardons have been misused in the past does not necessarily mean the power itself is corrupt.
1.2.20. Pro: The current president's character is clearly flawed. That should be reason enough to remove his pardon power.
1.2.21. Pro: Pardons are something presidents can offer in exchange for political contributions.
1.2.21.1. Con: This is true of basically any power of the presidency.
1.2.21.1.1. Con: Most powers of the presidency are subject to review by other branches of government, pardons are not.
1.2.21.2. Pro: -> See 1.2.3.
1.2.21.3. Con: By definition, that's pretty much bribery or pay to play as the Clintons ran things, buying your way out of prison so the rich and 'well connected' with the current party in power can continue to do as they please.
1.2.21.4. Pro: There is clear history of this power being abused for political and financial purposes. Mark Rich was given an 11th hour pardon that was never reviewed by staff vetting and compiling prospective pardons for Clinton. Why, contributions to his Presidential library.
1.2.21.5. Con: We can solve that problem by making pardons for those connected to the president contingent on Congressional approval.
1.2.21.5.1. Con: Congress is a party political institution and so may pardon crimes simply because it may benefit the incumbent president
1.2.21.5.2. Pro: While congressional approval is not a promise of limits on pardons, it will provide additional views of impacts and reasons.
1.2.21.6. Pro: President Clinton was accused of pardoning someone because they donated a lot of money to his [campaign](http://articles.latimes.com/2001/feb/21/news/mn-28265).
1.3. Con: Pardons allow for greater public input into the Judicial System.
1.3.1. Pro: Since judges are appointed for life in federal courts, there is little opportunity for public input into the judicial system.
1.3.2. Pro: If the POTUS decides to pardon all crimes of a specific nature, say all crimes regarding the use of a specific drug, it sends a strong message to the Judicial System to stop prosecuting those crimes.
1.3.3. Pro: Presidents are elected on four year cycles. The pardon thus serves as an avenue for the American people to influence to Judicial System.
1.3.4. Con: Judges are nominated by the POTUS and confirmed by Congress, all of which are elected by a vote from the people, representing an alternative avenue for public influence on the courts.
1.3.5. Con: The purpose of Judges is to be neutral and unbiased. It is important to insulate the Judicial System from public opinion.
1.3.5.1. Con: For the very reason that judges and the courts \(theoretically\) must rule based on the law alone, their hands are tied in cases where the law was breached even if for good cause, or where the law as written failed to consider the moral rightness of certain exceptions. Thus pardons can provide a tool for the executive to correct for those exceptions, actually freeing the judicial to do their jobs without the pangs of guilt caused by knowing the law was poorly written or flawed.
1.4. Pro: One person should not have the power to singlehandedly overturn justice.
1.4.1. Pro: It should only be exercised on the advice of a panel comprising all three arms of government - the Attorney-General, Chief Justice or an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, and the Chairman of the House or Senate Judiciary Committee. It should not be exercised by the President at his own motion without being supported by advice from each arm.
1.4.2. Pro: The President is particularly poorly positioned to exercise this power.
1.4.2.1. Pro: As Presidents are appointed by election, they are likely to act based on populism, not unbiased justice.
1.4.2.1.1. Pro: It may not be a coincidence that Sheriff Arpaio, whom President Trump chose to pardon, was ["a hero to the Trump base"](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2017/08/26/what-authoritarianism-experts-think-of-trumps-decision-to-pardon-joe-arpaio/?utm_term=.292be0c4d961). Furthermore, it is worrying that he was pardoned at a difficult political time for the president.
1.4.2.1.1.1. Pro: The combination of how [politically palatable](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/08/why-the-arpaio-pardon-matters/538131/) this pardon was to Trump's voting base, and the fact that the pardon coincided with Hurricane Harvey, a politically difficult period at the start of Trump's presidency, rather than at the end of a presidency as is the [norm](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/08/why-the-arpaio-pardon-matters/538131/), raises grave questions as to whether it was politically motivated.
1.4.2.1.2. Pro: President Trump claimed that he chose the time he did to pardon Sheriff Joe Arpaio because he thought that the television ratings would be [higher.](http://www.thenewcivilrightsmovement.com/davidbadash/trump_i_pardoned_joe_arpaio_during_the_hurricane_because_i_assumed_the_ratings_would_be_far_higher)
1.4.2.2. Pro: As an elected politician, the president is not guaranteed to have any legal expertise. They are likely to lack a detailed understanding of the legal system required to make them an effective and fair check or balance on the judiciary's power.
1.4.3. Pro: If the goal is to have checks and balances then the Judiciary & Executive branch must bi-laterally agree.
1.4.4. Con: Pardons act as a possible protection for people who did something morally correct but technically illegal. 

Example: Edward Snowden revealing bipartisan 4th Amendment violating domestic spying program was morally correct but under the law revealing classified information is illegal.
1.4.4.1. Con: We should have a way for unjust laws to not be enforced, but giving that power to one person for all cases makes it possible for the person to commit whatever crimes they want without consequence. If we need pardon powers, it should be vested in a group of people, and not in one person alone.
1.4.4.2. Con: If an action is morally correct but illegal, it is the laws that should change, not the court's ability to enforce laws.
1.4.4.2.1. Pro: Laws are meant to reflect the collective moral and ethical will, and require more collaborative input, compared to the power to pardon which rests unchecked on one individual's view and interests. This is why such changes ought to be addressed in the laws themselves rather than via pardon, because the enforcement of the law ought not to revolve around the interests of a single individual.
1.4.4.3. Con: Pardons also act as a possible protection for people who did something morally and legally wrong, but favors the interests of the person giving the pardon.
1.4.4.3.1. Pro: There are many historical examples where a pardon has been granted due to questionable and self-serving motives.
1.4.4.3.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.21.6.
1.4.4.3.1.2. Pro: President Clinton pardoned his brother Roger.
1.4.4.3.1.3. Pro: President Trump pardoned Joe Arpaio before he was sentenced.
1.5. Pro: Pardons undermine the rule of law.
1.5.1. Con: To the contrary, they reinforce it. Pardons were designed to give freedom to judges and juries to prosecute to the full extent of the law, allowing a check against unjust laws via the executive pardon. That human check against the mindless calculations of the law is an important support to maintaining the support for the rule of law.
1.5.2. Pro: The rule of law is contingent on the laws applying equally to everyone. Presidential pardons are often only available to the most politically connected criminals.
1.5.3. Pro: The rule of law relies on punishments being predictable, reasonable, and consistently enforced. Pardons undermine this by saying that some people should not be punished for doing what other people were punished for.
1.5.4. Pro: Pardons directly circumvents the seperation of powers, a fundamental part of democracy as we know it
1.5.5. Pro: The president cannot review every conviction, so the pardon system is an opportunity that does not apply equally to everyone.
1.5.6. Con: Nationally, and internationally, there are historical and contemporary unjust laws.
1.5.7. Pro: A pardon is an anachronistic hold over from totalitarian feudalism that held that the law was simply the King's will. The King could pardon any offense and *by definition* not be prosecuted for breaking the law \(see "sovereign immunity"\). Modern notions of justice require the rule of consistently applied written law not an autocrat's unconstrained whimsy.
1.6. Con: The president's right to pardon is consistent with widely agreed upon international norms governing the powers of the sovereign.
1.6.1. Pro: Liberal [constitutionalism](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2756107) often recognizes the importance of the sovereign being able to make an exception to the law.
1.6.2. Pro: The right to pardon is a continuation of the historical "[prerogative of mercy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_prerogative_of_mercy)" enjoyed by the British monarch.
1.6.3. Con: The Presidential power of pardon descends from the royal prerogative, but our Presidents are not royalty. Kings \(at least of England\) claim that they rule by the grace of God, but Presidents lead solely by the will of the people. Kings _were_ the law, while Presidents are _under_ the law.

Therefore, if the office has any power to commute sentences, it should be limited. Because a 2/3 vote of the House and Senate is a practical impossibility, it should be limited some other way.
1.6.4. Con: While there are diplomatic advantages to following international norms, what other countries are doing isn't a good enough reason to go along if the pardon is a problem in our country. It's also not the kind of difference that would cause a diplomatic problem.
1.7. Con: There is, as of yet, no evidence that a pardon has negatively impacted the country post-pardon.
1.7.1. Con: It may be very difficult to measure impacts on the country post-pardon
1.7.2. Con: Its arguable that Trumps recent use of the pardon as a political tool would never have been concievable if Ford had not pardoned Nixon.
1.7.3. Con: Just because it doesn't affect society as a whole, ethics still play a part. Just because we can doesn't mean we should.
1.7.4. Pro: A Presidential Pardon and a gun are exactly the same, they are a tool.  Neither is inherently good or bad, it's the person that decides where and how they are used that makes them good or bad.
1.7.5. Pro: To the country as a whole, pardons are small scale acts. They have little impact on most of us, and therefore have little risk. The opposite is true to the individuals affected. Given this dynamic, the potential benefits seem worth the small risks of wrong pardons.
1.7.6. Con: Many people believe they are harmed when criminals go free, regardless of whether they commit the same crimes again. People value justice, and a corrupt pardon takes that away from them.
1.8. Con: Pardons are the biggest check on the Judicial System.
1.8.1. Con: There exist multiple other checks on the Judicial System.
1.8.1.1. Pro: Judges are selected by the POTUS and confirmed by Congress, representing another check on the judicial system.
1.8.1.2. Pro: The Judicial System is merely able to interpret laws, which are themselves set by Congress.
1.8.1.3. Pro: The President can choose whether to enforce laws, or not, as seen by the Obama administration with executive orders telling federal officers to not prosecute crimes relating to weed in states that had legalized it.
1.8.1.4. Pro: A constitutional amendment will override any court decision.
1.8.1.5. Pro: Judges may be impeached under US Constitution Article 1.
1.8.2. Pro: The pardon represents the only retroactive check on the Judicial System.
1.8.2.1. Pro: Most checks on the Judicial System going into effect moving forward. The pardon allows to correct for past errors on the part of the Judicial System.
1.8.2.2. Pro: Laws change. The pardon can be used to avoid having people be in jail for actions that are no longer crimes.
1.8.3. Con: -> See 1.8.1.5.
1.8.4. Pro: Pardons exist for the purpose of having miscarriages of justice correctable by those accountable to the electorate.
1.8.4.1. Pro: Dinesh D'Souza was convicted for an offence people are seldom if ever prosecuted for, his conviction was politically motivated because he was critical of a sitting president, without a pardon by Donald Trump this injustice would stand
1.8.4.1.1. Con: D'Souza's pardon \(after he pleaded guilty\) was fairly obviously [politically](https://www.newyorker.com/news/daily-comment/why-trump-pardoned-dinesh-dsouzaand-may-pardon-martha-stewart) motivated.
1.8.4.2. Con: It is an unequal system, only correcting a handful of famous cases. If almost 1% of Americans are in prison, and if 1% were wrongly convicted, the current president would have to issue 32000 pardons. He doesn't.
1.8.4.3. Pro: For example: Thomas Jefferson pardoned [David Brown](https://founders.archives.gov/documents/Jefferson/01-33-02-0209), a man wrongfully convicted under the unconstitutional Alien and Sedition Act.
1.8.4.4. Con: Pardons can also be used in cases that were not miscarriages of justice.
1.8.4.4.1. Pro: [Joe Arpaio](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Arpaio#Conviction_for_contempt_of_court) for instance was charged with violating a federal court order which was meant to curtail racial discrimination.
1.8.4.4.2. Pro: [Peter Yarrow](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Yarrow#Criminal_conviction_and_pardon_by_President_Carter) was pardoned for inappropriate contact with a minor.
1.8.4.5. Con: The proper way to address miscarriages of justice is through appeals and changes in laws. The ability to circumvent prescribed punishments should not be unilaterally decided.
1.8.4.5.1. Con: Neither of these is sufficient.

Appeals extend the unaccountable judiciary's authority over the matter.  

New laws do not correct the situation for the person who is convicted under an unjust law.

Only the pardon gives the power to an individual accountable to the electorate to correct a miscarriage of justice.
1.8.5. Pro: The Judiciary has become extremely political and needs a "check and balance" so as a presidental pardon and other methods.
1.8.6. Pro: Pardons are a vital check on the judicial branch. However, they should be limited by law so that the president can not pardon a relative or any member of their administration or campaign for crimes committed in relation to said campaign or administration position.
1.8.6.1. Con: A limited pardon power is a good idea, but limits based on the crime or the pardonees relationship to the president would be too difficult to police. A limit in number, five per term for instance, could serve the same purpose.
1.8.6.1.1. Con: A president might then save those 5 claims for close relatives or for himself.
1.8.6.2. Pro: Enforcing laws limiting the types of people the president could not pardon would require few resources compared to resources used to police other government offices and with greater benefits. In fact, such enforcement would pay dividends greater than it's cost to maintain because of its deterrent effect in respect to a potential corrupt president and the damage they would cause.
1.8.7. Pro: Given the politicalization of the Judiciary with resultant inappropriate prosecutions and extreme sentences the last resort for justice lies in the Presidential power of pardon.
1.8.8. Pro: The constitution has checks and balances because the founders understood we are all fallible human beings.  Remove a power from one branch of government and that balance would be upset.
1.8.9. Con: Pardons are too statistically insignificant to have any overall effect on our justice system.
1.8.9.1. Con: Changing a fraction of inappropriate outcomes of the judicial system is still a check on their power, even if the judicial system per se does not then change itself.
1.8.10. Pro: The judiciary branch has the fewest checks on its power of any other branches. Removing pardons would undermine this.
1.8.10.1. Con: The Constitution and written laws are, in and of themselves, checks upon the Judicial system. While the Supreme Court may interpret the law, it is also bound by it.

The president is bound by neither for presidential pardons, allowing someone like Arpaio, a scourge of the judicial corrections process in America, walk free for saying nice things about a morally corrupt president.
1.8.11. Pro: Pardons are one way to check against the harmful impacts of unjust laws.
1.8.11.1. Pro: -> See 1.8.4.
1.8.11.2. Con: There are no checks against unjust pardons.
1.8.11.2.1. Con: What is unjust is often a matter of perspective. What maybe unjust to half the country is just to the other half.
1.8.11.2.1.1. Pro: Some people believe low-level drug offenses should be punished heavily, others do not believe they should be crimes at all. Thus, a pardon for a low-level drug offense would be just to some and unjust to others.
1.8.11.2.1.2. Pro: Some viewed Chelsea Manning as unjustly imprisoned and cheered the commutation of her sentence.
1.8.11.2.1.3. Con: Justice is based off of the ideals of fairness, and fairness is a set standard, where consideration of the needs and circumstantial status are required. Our justice system hasn’t reflected the ideals of fairness throughout it’s history, just punishment for imperfection. Matter of factly, our justice system is often fair with the caucasian ethnicity due to racial bias, and unfair even cruel more often then not, to those of different skin due to racism, fueled by an inflated superiority complex.
1.8.11.2.1.3.1. Pro: Our standard of Justice should always rely on the most updated and reliable information. We today, understand that human beings are born ignorant, vulnerable, and insecure by nature, and have problems. This does not suggest that people are problems. Everyones life has value, and some our lives don’t treat us right, so it’s up to us to treat each other fair. Our justice system should be fair enough not to condemn people to imprisonment and abuse for having problems, but should offer solutions.
1.8.11.2.1.3.2. Pro: Our justice system should reflect the values of society, being fair, compassionate, and empathetic to everyone. These are the ideals of equality, treating everyone with equal respects as yourself, and should recognize the value of people over profit. This is not current reality, as financial assets are priority in the legal system.
1.8.11.2.1.4. Con: Pardons themselves are unjust. They exist to circumvent justice.
1.8.11.2.1.4.1. Con: The justice system is not synonymous with justice; pardons exist to circumvent the justice system in cases where actual justice is not served.
1.8.11.2.1.4.2. Con: -> See 1.8.4.
1.8.11.2.1.4.3. Pro: There may be personal gain for the one granting the pardon, and thus making the system corrupt.
1.8.11.2.1.4.4. Pro: The justice system exists to determine matters of justice. Pardons disregard the determinations of the justice system. Therefore, pardons disregard justice.
1.8.11.2.1.4.4.1. Con: This argument implies a faulty assumption that the law is perfect and unchanging at some point in time \(when... now?\), and if that were true, then every law that has ever changed would be disregarding justice that came before it.
1.8.11.2.1.4.4.2. Con: At the very beginning of the constitution it lists its purposes, including to "establish justice", and the presidential pardoning power is created by the same document with Congress' power to write law and the judicial powers. It's all part of "the justice system".
1.8.11.2.1.4.4.3. Con: Even though the judicial system is tasked with maintaining justice, we recognize that there are sometimes miscarriages of justice.
1.8.11.2.1.4.4.3.1. Pro: We have an internal appeals process precisely because we recognize that justice can sometimes be misapplied.
1.8.11.2.1.4.4.3.2. Pro: We have external checks on the judiciary because we recognize that justice can sometimes be misapplied.
1.8.11.2.1.4.4.3.3. Pro: The standard "beyond a reasonable doubt" is often quantified as [95% sure](https://watermark.silverchair.com/api/watermark?token=AQECAHi208BE49Ooan9kkhW_Ercy7Dm3ZL_9Cf3qfKAc485ysgAAAc4wggHKBgkqhkiG9w0BBwagggG7MIIBtwIBADCCAbAGCSqGSIb3DQEHATAeBglghkgBZQMEAS4wEQQM275fUuGR8-qk4pWAAgEQgIIBgRwTJzlkmdQBRGqgvGBzOWh1_LYAHylNmvCdORjmqN95xf-8k_EfsaGjG-jqUvCiRbYK5g_jzClp-sEmrBmbh8C2GliIVyr4n_D-e9Quh2ycCORZzUdgvoGAmEYW_7R_9bftukHP8CBJkycIVkQsIR1mri-hkMrfzHd1pYVdYO6IkBgXbyvOSpg6EItU2lHQrYJZ-VE_1j3GbCBhDfFtb1SvSzrmYW8ZUKZQTobNQnN7O4zY5z1U3ng0Ia1h77zPphM4puCce0UpF_LXa1twR5zSQObEvRR8cLcYhjqHJLMbFXh640B22Efaz4O1Aeh8jGb05l8Fapm6L7frswxW6kJQfw-HJZCorTNHuL7Lj-GJoxWrLng5sPgMZeQ9Vkm7shrMN9ReL1fEqsg2HJJOJf60ts0JzUAXeCu3OhGskV6utBd45ct5UfkiL3vj4MDWuYX6_D0xeGlDM6AOBKidlx22UwM0zCyRCZnP6VF6aCsbzfEGGSgxHz07infOCD_I_LM) of the defendant's guilt. This means that there is allowance for 5% error in the system.
1.8.11.2.1.4.4.3.4. Con: -> See 1.8.4.5.
1.8.11.2.1.4.4.4. Con: Courts are not concerned with "justice."  They are concerned with the "law," hence the name "Court of Law."

When a law is unjust, those accountable to the electorate have the option of setting aside the unjust effect of the law.
1.8.11.2.1.4.4.4.1. Con: When a law is unjust, it is the right and responsibility of the jury to say "Not guilty" during deliberation.
1.8.11.2.1.4.4.4.2. Con: -> See 1.8.4.5.
1.8.12. Con: The pardon itself is unchecked, which is an exploitable fault in the system.
1.8.12.1. Con: The president's powers are all checked by the threat of impeachment if those powers are abused; this cannot restrain abuse of pardon but it can deter it.
1.8.12.1.1. Con: Even the threat of impeachment won't necessarily dissuade a corrupt President from pardoning his criminal cronies, if, once out of office, his vice-president, now president, can simply pardon him. And as with Gerald Ford's pardon of Nixon, this new president will have little to fear as far as impeachment of himself, since using the pardon is not an impeachable offense.
1.8.12.1.2. Con: An impeachment based on a pardon would be highly unlikely. This presidential ability has long been accepted and considered infallible- not by law, but by practice. It is unrealistic to believe that a president would ever pardon a criminal of such vile magnitude that Congress would consider impeachment, let alone vote on it.
1.8.12.2. Pro: The pardon means that even if members of a President's administration are called upon to testify before Congress, and prosecuted for failing to cooperate, the President [can pardon](https://people.howstuffworks.com/presidential-pardon5.htm) them and undermine the punishment. This gives an unfair dominance to the President, who is equally meant to be kept in check by the other arms of government.
1.8.13. Con: Pardons do not act as a check on non-federal judicial systems because pardons can only be issued for federal offenses.
1.8.13.1. Con: The President doesn't need to be able to pardon state laws; governors have that ability.
1.8.13.2. Con: State Governors have equal ability to pardon or commute State level crimes. Thus the ability to pardon by the elected leader is there at all levels.
1.9. Con: Presidents uniquely represent the present collective will of the whole US electorate to wield all of civil, criminal, and military powers in the enforcement of that will on matters under federal jurisdiction; pardons being only one such vehicle.
1.9.1. Con: The electoral will of the American people is not related to the guilt of a citizen accused of commiting a federal crime.  The court of popular opinion should not be consulted in adjudicating on criminal matters.
1.9.2. Pro: The president is the only person elected by the entire country. This means that they have the broadest possible mandate to exercise authority.
1.9.2.1. Con: The electoral college system means that the president is not always the candidate who received the most votes.
1.9.2.2. Con: The president is not elected by the entire country. The president is selected by a small group of electors who are voted for. This makes the appointment of the president fundamentally no different than positions filled by Congressional appointment, such as Supreme Court judges.
1.9.2.2.1. Con: Though that may be the case, the individual states each choose their own electors who are expected to vote along with the will of the majority of the people in their states; therefore, the people elect the president more directly than Supreme Court Justices.
1.9.2.2.1.1. Con: Individual states also choose their Congress people who are also expected to vote along with the majority of people in their area. The two processes are identical in this regard, which means that the election of the President is no more direct than the election of Supreme Court Justices.
1.9.2.2.1.1.1. Pro: The number of people who directly vote for the president is the same as the number of people who vote for congressional appointments, such as Supreme Court justices.
1.9.3. Con: This power assumes that the President will represent the interests of the nation. If that assumption is false, pardoning becomes a weapon against the American people.
1.10. Con: Congress’ power \(with 2/3s vote in the House and Senate\) to amend the President’s power to pardon is enough of a check to keep the President from mis-using their power to pardon.
1.10.1. Con: Such checks are only valid if the politics are beneficial. There are more motives for a political group to turn a blind eye to an abuse of power in hopes that they can utilize the power later, than there are motives to keep the application of power honest.
1.10.2. Con: The President already appoints the Supreme Court justices and the Senate approves them. Let the system work. The President should only be allowed to pardon foreigners for reasons of defense, national  security or foreign policy.
1.10.3. Con: This claim is inaccurate. The House & Senate can only propose an amendment. The proposed amendment must then be ratified by 38 states before it becomes an amendment.
1.10.4. Con: -> See 1.2.3.
1.11. Con: A sitting president could take political action to enact revenge against political opponents. The power to pardon allows an incoming president to undo that action and provide relief from revenge.
1.12. Con: Pardons are consistent with the Executive Branch's purpose of carrying out the law.
1.12.1. Pro: The Justice System is imperfect and sometimes it may be required to cut through for the sake of national interest or for the sake of humanity.
1.12.2. Pro: The Executive Branch has wide discretion in choosing which laws to enforce.
1.12.2.1. Pro: President Obama [instructed](https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/obama-administration-will-not-preempt-state-marijuana-laws--for-now/2013/08/29/b725bfd8-10bd-11e3-8cdd-bcdc09410972_story.html?utm_term=.dc34551b94f4) his Justice Department not to prosecute low-level weed offenders, and permitted states to legalize weed on their own, despite weed being formally illegal.
1.12.2.2. Con: The Executive Branch should be beholden to the laws as passed by Congress, and not legislate itself.
1.13. Con: The following amendment to the U.S. constitution is hereby proposed: “The President has no power to grant any reprieve or pardon to the current or immediate past Presidents, Vice Presidents, cabinet members, or any nominee or appointee of any of the foregoing, or to any person with whom any of the foregoing has any past, present, or reasonably foreseeable future personal, family, charitable, business, financial, government, or political relationship.”
1.14. Con: History has proven that our legal system sometimes results in bad decisions from time to time and the Presidential pardon is a great way to rectify mistakes and overreaches.
1.14.1. Pro: In addition to pardons, the President can 'commute' sentences to rectify excess in legislation or the courts. Governors also have this right for State crimes. Both States and Federal Executive Branches have a vetting process to mange requests. Abuse is limited.
1.15. Pro: As democracy was made with the ideas of ‘power to the people’ in mind, if any body should own the ability to pardon a person of any crime, out would need to be the public majority. Giving one man, especially the rather disfunctional one we have today, the power to pardon anyone, excluding any public opinion, is a crime against true democracy, where all people are equal and powerful. The united states is a term-limited, theocratic oligarchy with autocratic election systems. The US isnt democratic
1.15.1. Con: The U.S. is not a pure democracy, but it is a constitutional democracy. However, it is highly probable that technology, such as blockchain, will eventually result in the U.S. becoming a true democracy. But, before that happens, the majority of citizens must be well-educated. Otherwise, we could be forever ruled by ignorance, fear, and hate, rather than by facts, logic, and reason.
1.15.1.1. Con: While the United States' Constitution is democratic, it’s practices are not. It’s important to recognize the fact that if a lion dresses like a zebra, and calls itself a zebra, but continues to behave and function like a lion, it’s still a lion. The operations of U.S. society and government do not reflect, nearly at all, the ideas of a democracy, and in that the U.S. is not a practiced democracy, it is a practiced theocratic oligarchy, with an autocratic election system.
1.15.1.1.1. Con: Actually the US is constitutionally a republic with democratically elected representatives as apposed to being appointed by a monarch. We also don't directly elect our president by democratic vote, but rather we elect voters to vote for them. The system is set up like that to protect from the oligarchy that would form out of the most populated cities were we to elect purely democratically. The president's pardon/veto power is also designed as a protection against the tyranny of the masses
1.16. Con: The pardon exists to end irreconcilable differences as occur in a civil war, and without using pardons to cleanly end the settling of scores by prosecution, wars like our Civil War might never have ended.
1.16.1. Pro: The assumption of a blanket pardoning of people who took up arms against the United States in the Civil War but committed no war crimes enticed the rebels to lay down arms and return to normal life.
1.16.2. Con: Pardoning is an inexact way to ease tensions, and it could be used in an overly broad way that allows those both deserving of punishment and capable of being punished without ripping apart the fabric of society to escape justice.
1.17. Pro: It has become clear that the presidency is constrained more by norms than laws. Thus, we must enshrine limits on executive power into law.
1.17.1. Pro: If we do not codify limits of executive power, there is little stopping the presidency from devolving into autocracy without strong congressional oversight.
1.17.2. Con: The power to pardon is explicitly defined under law \([Constitution, Article II, Sec. 2](https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/articleii)\) and limited to "Offenses against the United States, except in cases of impeachment."
1.17.3. Pro: Many of President Trump's actions, such as [personally profiting](https://www.economist.com/news/business/21725303-six-months-mr-trumps-conflicts-interest-look-even-worse-how-donald-trump-monetising) from the presidency, are unethical but probably are not criminal.
1.17.3.1. Con: He is not personally profiting directly from the presidency. Actually, he would be getting A LOT more money if he were not the president. He is only getting a small amount of money from the company that his sons run for him. He also [gives 100% of his presidential salary](https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/trump-refuse-salary/) to various charities quarterly.
1.17.3.1.1. Con: [Trump properties](http://www.newsweek.com/trump-properties-profit-foreign-governments-gop-782260), which Trump still legally owns, have received tremendous amounts of money for GOP and Foreign sources in the last 2 years.
1.17.4. Con: People don´t find trust in a government that constantly changes its mind.
1.17.4.1. Con: Rational people are aware that laws and regulations cannot be written or considered for every instance. Therefore, it is realistic that amendments or changes will incur as situations arise. Many of our original laws were written with a simple understanding of common decency and with the expectation that the checks and balances will  remain effective. It is reasonable to expect a change in laws when loopholes or norms are grossly abused.
1.17.5. Pro: It is [legally questionable](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/29/us/politics/a-constitutional-puzzle-can-the-president-be-indicted.html?mcubz=1) whether a sitting president can be indicted and therefore prosecuted, meaning that absent congressional action, presidents might be effectively immune from consequences for illicit actions.
1.17.5.1. Con: A president can be impeached for "[high crimes and misdemeanors](https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/articleii)." Impeachment effectively removes the power to pardon and cannot be undone by pardon.
1.17.5.2. Pro: The president has an absolute ability to pardon, including [even his own convictions](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/449816/russia-controversy-donald-trump-presidential-pardon-power-congressional-impeachment) \(excluding impeachment\). Even if he could be prosecuted, this would make him immune from legal punishment so long as he is still in office.
1.17.6. Pro: Regardless of legal technicalities, allowing the president to pardon crimes creates the mindset that a president's actions are [by definition](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiHN3IJ_j8A) not illegal.
1.17.7. Con: Laws of a nation should be consistent with its underlying norms. When the government misrepresents the values of the people, the laws it passes can be tyrannical and threaten societal disruption. Judicial pardon is a small check against judicial tyranny.
1.17.7.1. Con: The usable instances of judicial pardon are so narrow and specific, that the general populace gains no benefit from judicial pardon, especially if the presidency, like the remainder of the government, has fallen into tyrannical tendencies. Instead, criminals who are supporters of a corrupt system would receive the benefit of pardons \(as is the case with Arpaio\).
1.18. Pro: -> See 1.8.11.2.1.4.
1.19. Con: The pardon power is clearly laid out in the Constitution.  The Constitution should not be amended for light or transitory reasons.
1.19.1. Con: The Constitution was written in 1776, meaning that some of its notions may be archaic, outdated or even downright irrelevant. With the right checks and balances in place, the Constitution should be able to be amended to reflect contemporary society.
1.19.2. Con: The Constitution was framed at a time when most laws governing ordinary life were expected to be state laws, and thus outside the scope of presidential pardon. This power has become considerably more powerful than originally intended or desired.
1.19.2.1. Pro: That is an excellent argument for returning the federal government to the significantly smaller scope of power that it was intended to have.
1.19.2.2. Con: This is a poor argument since State Governors have equal power to pardon or commute sentences for State crimes.
1.19.3. Pro: Federal judges are more concerned with activism than interpretation of the law. Voters are more influenced by emotion than deliberation. Abiding by a document that was written in a time of careful consideration, with great concern for the rule of law, is probably the best thing we could do as a nation today.
1.19.4. Con: Amending Presidential power would not be light or transitory, especially the power to pardon crimes.
1.19.5. Con: It's entirely likely that an amendment to change how presidential pardons work would also be clear.
1.19.6. Con: The ability to amend the Constitution is important so that the Constitution may keep up with the changing needs of the nation as exploitable problems with the Constitution may arise. So that if something no longer serves the goal of the Constitution, it may be changed.