Discussion Title: Should People Only be Allowed to Vote if they Pass a Certain Test?

1. People should only be allowed to vote if they pass a certain test.
1.1. Con: This could be vulnerable to corruption.
1.1.1. Con: Any political system is vulnerable to corruption.
1.1.2. Pro: Parties would win that could influence the test.
1.1.3. Pro: Politicians can use certain test questions to eliminate their opponents.
1.1.3.1. Con: A better opponent should be able to predict expected answers, and adjust his/her responses accordingly in order to pass the test.
1.1.3.2. Con: There's no requirement made in the main thesis that politicians are the ones creating or approving the test. Could be a different branch of government,  a non government entity, etc.
1.1.3.3. Pro: If test takers do not support policies the ruling party favours, they may be made to fail.
1.1.3.3.1. Con: The test is not about political ideas, but rather about law, rights and duties, which are not subjective.
1.1.3.4. Pro: Test questions may contain leading remarks that prevent takers of the opposing view from answering them according to their honest opinion.
1.1.3.4.1. Con: The questions would not be political. They would be about law, duties and rights.
1.1.3.5. Pro: Tests may make assumptions that the test taker does not agree with \(eg. the reason for inflation\).
1.1.3.5.1. Con: The test has to be objective, and not subjective. Law, rights and duties are always objective.
1.1.3.6. Pro: Test questions may be reported fair by the general media, while in reality exposing the ideals of the taker.
1.1.3.6.1. Con: A political test is not about ideas, but rather about law, rights and duties.
1.1.3.7. Pro: Correct test answers may be biased towards a more liberal/conservative viewpoint.
1.1.3.7.1. Con: This is not a valid argument, because there is no reason why correct test answers should be biased towards anything. People have to take tests in math all the time and those answers aren't biased towards any particular political ideology.
1.1.3.7.1.1. Con: Tests pertaining to politics are likely to have politically-minded questions \(much like maths tests are likely to have numbers\). As such, bias is still a major concern.
1.1.3.7.1.1.1. Con: If it's an objective test about laws, rights and duties, than there is no reason for questions to be politically-minded
1.1.3.8. Con: Nowhere in the original question does it say, that the test has to be a kind of test, where it's even possible to ask the kinds of questions, that would be required for eliminating any kind of political opposition. The test could well be a very basic test translated into any language. It's only purpose would be to rule out people who have an extremely low IQ or literally know absolutely nothing about the world or current social issues.
1.1.4. Con: It could theoretically be vulnerable, but measures could be put in place to protect the process just as there are measures to protect voting.
1.1.5. Pro: The people assigned to choose what goes on such a test would have too much power over the vote, and therefore, on the outcome.
1.1.5.1. Con: The planning of the test could go through a peer reviewed process by various people from all spectrums.
1.1.5.2. Con: The people involved in the creation of the test should be chosen from all the political colors.
1.1.6. Pro: While a test does have some benefits to verify political knowledge, ultimately it can backfire and be used as a weapon against specific age groups or races. Tests like these can easily be biased as well, promoting one ideology subtly over another. Perhaps a questionnaire about political understanding and knowledge could be optionally taken before or after voting to be used statistically, but it should never be mandatory.
1.1.7. Pro: If we require questions on a poll test, the information that goes on the test suddenly becomes very important and very powerful. Designating information for a test indicates that that knowledge is somehow special, authoritative, and privileged. And that people MUST learn it. Even though the information in the test may or may not be correct or may be biased. We should not do this because it is wrong to tell people what or how to think, and because this is a big threat for propaganda.
1.2. Pro: More intelligent people would be given a greater voice, making smart choices more important than popularity.
1.2.1. Pro: Intelligence, as defined by "the ability to acquire and apply knowledge and skills", is a desired trait in any leader, and in those selecting said leaders, for as long as the problems leaders are meant to address require skill and knowledge in order to solve them.
1.2.2. Pro: Critical thinking is better mastered by intelligent people.
1.2.3. Pro: Better should always be popular, but popular isn't always better.
1.2.4. Con: Intelligence does not equal sound political choices; it is subject to personal preference - including popularity -  which no amount of testing can guard against.
1.2.4.1. Con: The "exam" does not necessarily need to ask about political preferences, but rather ask about the role of the president, how the government works, what are your rights, et cetera.
1.2.5. Con: This fundamentally claims that "intelligent" people should have more rights that those of lesser intelligence, which seems like a dystopian way of viewing humanity
1.2.5.1. Con: You can make an analogy with any other public service. For example, you only have the right to go to college if you score high enough on your SATs. That is not dystopian, but just common sense.
1.2.6. Con: Intelligence is subjective; being able to memorise political policies does not necessarily mean you make better voting decisions
1.2.6.1. Con: Determining the eligibility to vote might encompass a variety of different approaches. A test of policy knowledge is not the only form such a qualification could take.
1.2.7. Con: General intelligence, or just mere knowledge about civics, is not an indicator of other values such as empathy, a sense of right or wrong, or economic polices that we might consider essential for a voter to have in a civic society.
1.2.7.1. Con: An eventual "civics test" can include questions that range from empathy, right or wrong, laws, et cetera. And it's certainly better than nothing.
1.2.8. Con: There is little evidence that educated people choose better policies. Clever people led us into the 2008 financial crisis and a difficult situation in the Middle East. Technocrats have supported and even enabled some of history's most evil tyrannies. Instead of making them more open-minded, education often simply gives citizens more ways to defend their existing biases.
1.2.8.1. Con: Education and Intelligence are not equal qualities. The parent claim asserts intelligence as a factor, not education level.
1.2.8.2. Con: There's no evidence uneducated people choose better policies.
1.3. Pro: It would help avoid bringing politicians that make false promises to power, as their claims would be more accurately assessed.
1.3.1. Con: If politicians elect to lie, there is not necessarily any way of knowing, regardless of any amount of assessment.
1.3.2. Pro: Politicians who would actually make a difference will be more likely to be elected.
1.4. Con: This threatens the idea of true democracy.
1.4.1. Con: Democracy for its own sake has not been proven by history to be a valuable goal.
1.4.2. Pro: -> See 1.1.3.
1.4.3. Con: Throughout history, democracy has had many different checks on unfettered democracy - age, legality, ownership of land, sex, race, etc. This would simply be a different check on the process - only allowing those with a minimal knowledge of an issue to vote on that issue.
1.4.4. Pro: Rejecting someone's worldview on the basis that they are ignorant is antithetical to democracy. The goal of democracy is not to make "correct" decisions, it is maintain government that most accurately represents the desires of the people, even if that is not pragmatically ideal.
1.4.4.1. Con: Such a system would be absolute democracy, akin to mob rule. Governments with MPs or congresspeople use a representative democracy that takes into account the ignorance of the people by having a representative make decisions on behalf of their constituents.
1.4.5. Con: To think that democracy should be protected unconditionally suggests some form of [cognitive bias](https://www.yourbias.is/), a phenomenon that is exploited via social engineering. This also proves why a mere age limit is inadequate to make someone eligible to have direct political influence: Age doesn't grant immunity against indoctrination and brainwashing rhetorical devices, for example \(even if one favors critical thinking\).
1.4.6. Con: True democracy is not necessarily better than other forms of government.
1.4.6.1. Con: "True democracy" is very hard to define.
1.4.6.1.1. Pro: "True democracy" is hard to define because it's a meaningless expression. There is representative democracy, direct democracy, but there is no true democracy.
1.4.6.2. Con: Assessing a form of government as "better" than another has too wide a range of results as results vary greatly depending on desired goal\(s\).
1.4.6.2.1. Con: That doesn't change the fact that democracy is not the most efficient form of government
1.4.6.3. Pro: Some problems are better tackled through non democratic means. Example: technical problems affecting society \(as opposed to purely social ones\).
1.5. Con: Implementation of such a test would be difficult.
1.5.1. Con: Not necessarily; it might be expensive, but everybody must sign up to vote and register. If the test is embedded in the process of registering, that may be an excellent way around the problem.
1.5.2. Pro: Questions are likely to favour certain policies.
1.5.2.1. Con: They needn't. Pro and con groups could each write a question.
1.5.3. Pro: The test questions would be subject to perpetual debate.
1.5.3.1. Con: Politics in general is perpetually in debate.
1.5.4. Con: It shouldn't be. Many states already publish voters guides with good explanations of both the pro and con of various issues, especially referendums/initiatives. In addition to that, the pro and con groups could each write one or more true/false or multiple choice test questions. One each pro and con test question could appear on the ballot right by the issue itself. If you fail enough of the questions, your vote on that issue doesn't count.
1.5.5. Pro: This is harder to implement in overpopulated countries like China and India.
1.5.5.1. Con: The test questions can just appear on the ballot, so it's no harder than printing ballots is.
1.5.6. Pro: Testing would cost time and money.
1.5.7. Con: Basic knowledge of democratic institutions should be a minimum requisite for voting, but this could easily be achieved by making it a mandatory subject in secondary education, without the need of a specific test.
1.6. Pro: Such a test need not be "all or nothing." The questions about an issue could appear on the ballot itself, right near the issue they relate to. If you fail the questions about that issue, your vote for that issue doesn't count, but your other votes do.
1.7. Pro: It incentivises the whole population to become more engaged with politics and current political issues. More awareness and understanding is better for society
1.7.1. Con: Mandatory education can be used to insure that the voting population is educated enough to make an informed decision instead of using explicit voter tests without creating systems that explicitly deny groups the ability to vote.
1.7.1.1. Con: Mandatory education does not ensure that a person will be capable of giving an educated vote. The exam would be the way to filter those who skipped the mandatory classes.
1.8. Con: Voting tests, such as literacy tests, have [historically](http://www.openculture.com/2014/07/literacy-test-louisiana-used-to-suppress-the-black-vote.html) been used explicitly to deny specific groups of people the right to vote.
1.8.1. Pro: Wealthier people tend to have better access to education and therefore more likely to pass the test. It would create a class divide and the middle class would literally have more rights than the working class. The working class would be robbed of their only real tool for societal change.
1.8.1.1. Con: The political test does not need to be as high level as an SAT, for example. It could be a simple test that asks you for the bare minimum.
1.8.2. Con: It's okay that specific groups of people are not allowed to vote. For example: children aren't usually allowed to vote, because they are considered too young - too inexperienced. The same kind of logic could be used to "filter out" people who have very little knowledge of the world or terrible analytical capabilities.
1.8.2.1. Con: The benefit is to keep those who you do not wish to vote, unable to pass the test. This can lead to education suppression, as an example. There are vast amounts of [education imbalance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Educational_inequality) which can be furthered to suppress votes from those who wish to change the system-- ergo, suppressing those who would wrest power from those who wish to maintain it through unfair means.
1.8.2.2. Pro: Those who have a medically diagnosed incapacity for voting should not be allowed to vote, because they may be far more easily swayed to vote one way or another. However, this must be regulated to medically diagnosed conditions on a mental level.
1.8.2.3. Con: Representation is foundational to the American DNA. "No taxation without representation" is one of our oldest grievance slogans. Removing the ability of any group to vote reinstates this 400-year old injustice.
1.8.2.4. Con: The difference between children and adults is logical and universal to all people, thus indiscriminate. A test would have inherent biases unless the society was truly equal, and therefore a test would inherently discriminate against groups of individuals.
1.8.2.4.1. Pro: Given the large movement away from standardized tests in education, we shouldn't elect to have a test for democracy subject to the same inherent flaws.
1.8.2.4.2. Pro: Who gets to create the test is a difficult questions that will also have inherent issues and repercussions.
1.9. Con: A test may exclude people who have a disability, speak another language, or have some other hinderance from being able to participate in the political process, even though they may otherwise be fully eligible and capable.
1.9.1. Con: This can be easily combatted by making the tests adaptable to different needs.
1.9.2. Con: Could be avoided with a well made system
1.10. Pro: The people allowed to vote can be trusted to make informed decisions.
1.10.1. Con: The problem isn't the electorate being uninformed. The problem is that politicians, "informed" and educated, across the political/ideological spectrum seem to put personal interests before service. So, a test as a requirement to participate in the election process achieves very little beyond excluding communities and individuals who weren't born in certain zip codes or with certain privileges.
1.10.1.1. Con: The question is about educated voters, and not educated politicians. You cannot base your argument with evidence from before the implementation of this idea.
1.10.2. Pro: We want to make sure that people voting have a basic understanding of how civics work & a basic level of intelligence. Democracy requires an educated electorate.
1.11. Con: This could lead to a divide in society between the voters and the people who failed the test.
1.11.1. Pro: This has been done before and has been shown to be a tool to disenfranchise people of the ["other/unwanted"](http://www.slate.com/blogs/the_vault/2013/06/28/voting_rights_and_the_supreme_court_the_impossible_literacy_test_louisiana.html) class.
1.11.1.1. Con: This happened almost 60 years ago. Literacy rates are much higher nowadays.
1.11.2. Pro: The people that fail the test could resort to violent protests.
1.11.2.1. Pro: People who are less educated or intelligent tend to resort to violence instead of civil debate.
1.11.2.1.1. Con: But you cannot base your government over what uneducated and violent people might do, because that is unpredictable.
1.11.2.1.2. Pro: Intelligence and crime are [inversely correlated.](http://law.jrank.org/pages/1365/Intelligence-Crime-Explaining-IQ-crime-correlation.html)
1.11.2.1.2.1. Con: But that deviates from the central subject, which is the "political test"
1.11.2.1.3. Pro: [Delinquents and criminals](http://law.jrank.org/pages/1363/Intelligence-Crime-Measuring-size-IQ-crime-correlation.html) average IQ scores 8 to 10 points lower than noncriminals, which is about one-half a standard deviation.
1.11.2.1.3.1. Con: But an IQ test is not the same as a "political test"
1.11.2.1.4. Con: Violence and criminality has a whole host of issues that lead to that problem [See here.](http://criminal-justice.iresearchnet.com/crime/education-and-crime/4/)  Low IQ individuals will commit more violent crimes where as High IQ individuals will be caught up in white collar crimes.
1.11.2.2. Con: True, but people whose candidates simply lose can, and sometimes already do, resort to violence. Adding the test questions wouldn't change that fact.
1.11.3. Con: It leads to a positive divide, the kind of divide that disallows an unqualified individual to conduct a surgery or to engineer an airbus or to drive a car or develop medicine. It is a discrimination which can be overcome through the acquisition of necessary skills that allow an individual to make reasonable and responsible political decisions.