Discussion Title: Should children be allowed on social media?

1. Should children be allowed on social media
1.1. Pro: Any given child's friends are likely on social media. If one child isn't, then they could be treated as an outsider.
1.1.1. Con: Peer pressure does not negate the possible difficulties of social media access; this shouldn't be considered a major factor.
1.1.2. Pro: In the current climate of social media, adults struggle without social media to connect and organise social engagements; children would have the same problems.
1.2. Con: Social media is [addictive](https://www.psychologytoday.com/intl/blog/in-excess/201805/addicted-social-media).
1.3. Con: Spending too much time on social media can cause depression and even [drive people to suicide](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_media_and_suicide). This is especially a problem with children, who are more vulnerable than adults and can be more easily influenced.
1.3.1. Con: This can easily be mitigated by education, supervision, and parental involvement and limitations. The problem is that kids are allowed to run rampant in the social media world, with nobody taking care of them.
1.3.2. Pro: The '[Blue Whale Challenge](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/russia-online-death-cult-suicide-mastermind-ilya-sidorov-blue-whale-challenge-self-harm-kill-a7783591.html)' - which encouraged young people to harm and even kill themselves - is such an example.
1.4. Pro: There is nothing wrong with children learning to navigate the waters of something that has become a major part of our social communications, as long as their parents take the time to supervise them while they do so.
1.4.1. Con: This assumes that parents will take the time, which is uncertain.
1.4.2. Con: Parents may not know what to look for: with the speed that technology is developing, sites are outrunning adults whose children are able to navigate them more easily and with more secrecy than ever before.
1.5. Con: Children should not be subjected to seeing some of the things that come up on social media.
1.5.1. Con: Social media sites can be made child-friendly.
1.5.2. Con: Some [social media sites are child-friendly.](https://www.toptenreviews.com/software/articles/top-10-social-networks-for-kids/)
1.5.2.1. Con: Unless this can be guaranteed, it still poses a risk.
1.5.3. Con: Then their parents should be supervising them
1.5.4. Pro: [Viral videos](https://gizmodo.com/police-departments-warn-facebook-users-to-stop-sharing-1822749982) of abuse, including child abuse, can be circulated easily online.
1.6. Pro: Children can boost their confidence and self esteem by sharing pictures of themselves and their friends.
1.6.1. Pro: Photographs are [vitally important](https://lifetouch.ca/photography-builds-self-esteem/) in self-esteem development for young children.
1.6.2. Pro: They can communicate with friends and family easily.
1.6.3. Con: This is potentially dangerous for the child's safety if they are not conversant enough on internet privacy.
1.6.4. Con: Social media gives a [false representation of reality](http://www.todaypictures.com/social-media-false-self/). Children would not be able to 'express their personality', but rather develop an online persona, whilst battling with every other child doing the same. This has proven negative repercussions on self esteem.
1.7. Pro: A dedicated platform for children, with appropriate parental controls and use restrictions, could provide all the benefits of social media while mitigating the risks.
1.8. Pro: Children can express their personalities online.
1.8.1. Pro: Different sites give the opportunity to show creative sides - like fanworks and art - while others are more to share information on day to day life. All of these things are deeply valuable to children who are learning who they are.
1.8.2. Con: -> See 1.6.4.
1.8.3. Pro: Children can share their opinions and views on the world.
1.9. Con: Children should not be able to talk to anybody in the world
1.9.1. Con: Children can learn a lot by talking to people of any age from other cultures and backgrounds
1.9.2. Con: There is no reason why not, unless it compromises their safety, which is a separate consideration.
1.10. Con: Children could get bullied for things they post.
1.10.1. Con: Parents and schools have a responsibility to monitor and intervene in such cases.
1.10.2. Con: Children will likely be bullied even if they don't have social media.
1.10.3. Pro: It is possible to troll and bully anonymously, allowing for even more vitriolic and unpleasant bullying with less accountability.
1.10.4. Con: Appropriate terms of service, effectively enforced, can deal with this problem.
1.11. Con: Children could meet up with people they don't know.
1.11.1. Con: Social media sites could introduce or may already use systems designed to prevent people from interacting with pure strangers.
1.11.2. Con: This depends on whether their parents permit it; most parents will intervene in such cases.