Discussion Title: Should we judge the quality of artwork based on the conduct of the artist?

1. The quality of artwork should not be judged based on the conduct of the artist.
1.1. Pro: Everyone who makes the world worse in one way can make it better in another.
1.1.1. Pro: The conduct or reputation of a scientist or inventor would not in most cases diminish the importance to society of their discovery. So it should not be any different for art.
1.1.2. Pro: A hypothetical example: You fall in the path of a moving train. A man reaches down off the platform and rescues you from otherwise certain death. You later find out that the same man killed his own wife in a drunken rage. You can be grateful for the man's action to save you, while still thinking of him as a murderer on the whole.
1.1.3. Pro: Judging art \(or anything\) based on the creator's morals is a slippery slope to division and partisanship. While judgement based on egregious crimes seems reasonable this thinking can lead to judgement based on political or religious views for example, encouraging close-mindedness.
1.1.4. Pro: Nobody is perfect and most great artists are psychologically damaged. They just need to be honest with themselves and others, as [Louis C.K](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/10/arts/television/louis-ck-statement.html) did.
1.1.5. Pro: It is more concise thinking to separate the art from the artist. It is possible to like what someone did, while disliking the person for something else they did. People with concise thinking have a better grasp of reality.
1.1.6. Pro: Just as one can benefit from the scientific insight of people who were [racist \(Einstein\)](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/14/world/einstein-travel-diaries.html) or benefit from the political and social change brought forth by a [sexist \(Gandhi\),](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2010/jan/27/mohandas-gandhi-women-india)one should be able to enjoy art from creators who are morally questionable, assuming the art in itself does not carry ideas or messages that are morally reprehensible.
1.1.7. Pro: Judging an artist who died hundreds or thousands of years ago is not justifiable in today's times. It lacks fair evidence, clarity, and perspective. Imagine if we outlawed the killing of animals for food - we'd have to judge the cave man, and his paintings, because he killed an animal to feed his family.
1.1.8. Pro: We don’t judge anything else that people make based on the conduct of the maker. For instance, no-one would sell their house on learning that the contractor who built it was subsequently convicted of a crime. There is nothing about art that requires us to consider the morals of the artist in order to appreciate a work of art, anymore than we would inquire about the morals of the baker when we buy bread.
1.1.9. Pro: Art is independent of its maker, as for scientific discoveries are useful and rich of purpose regardless of their maker's faults. For example, the discoverer of [Kuru Disease](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Carleton_Gajdusek) was charged with child molestation.
1.2. Pro: Disregarding a work of art on the basis of its origin hinders progress in human creativity.
1.2.1. Pro: Art is entirely seperate from the person who created it. Art should not be judged by moral standards, but rather artistic ones.
1.2.2. Con: Creativity is progress agnostic. To progress something needs a forward path. Art is an exploration of the imagination.
1.2.2.1. Con: It can be argued that creativity has real world affects \(outside of imagination\), such as songs inspiring and advocating for peace and social change that trigger mass protests.
1.2.3. Pro: Disregarding a sound argument on the basis of its origin is a fallacy, and hinders the advancement of human knowledge.
1.3. Pro: The quality of a work of art can have no moral implications.
1.3.1. Con: Art is the least invasive form of teaching ethics.
1.3.2. Con: Aesthetics are often judged in relation to an ideal \(real or imaginary\), and the process of describing any ideal involves implicit moral judgment.
1.3.3. Pro: Formal or technical criticism of a piece of art may not speak to the content of the piece at all.
1.3.3.1. Pro: If this were not true, any abstract art would be utterly inscrutable to criticism. Yet we find that some abstract art is considered to be of high quality while other abstract art is considered to be of low quality.
1.3.4. Pro: An artist can never improve the quality of his/her artwork by behaving well, so it makes little sense that behaving badly would reduce the quality.
1.3.4.1. Con: It is not just about an artists’ behavior, it is also about the implications of their work. Art is not created in a void, it has a context that makes it more or less socially valuable, by the society at large and by the artistic circuits.
1.3.4.1.1. Pro: [Leni Riefenstahl](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leni_Riefenstahl#Detention_and_trials) was a great cinematographer, her images had artistic value, yet their messages were used to elevate and glorify Nazism. Her films were making the public appreciate something they should [condemn](http://www.open.edu/openlearn/history-the-arts/culture/philosophy/art-censorship-and-morality#), and thus they failed at their goal.
1.3.4.1.1.1. Pro: [Leni Riefenstahl](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leni_Riefenstahl#Detention_and_trials)’s career in film never recovered after the war, therefore her misdeeds \(while associated to Nazism, an atrocity as big as possible\) did impact her artistic career, no matter how good and talented she was.
1.3.5. Con: Declaring something good or bad has an inherently personal and moral slant: it implies something does or doesn't represent the right ideas as you see it.
1.3.6. Pro: If a work of art teaches us something new about ourselves, it has artistic merit and should be studied. This artistic worth is separate from morals. Art that just reinforce our values, on the other hand, does not have artistic value. It is misguided to think that artistic worth is the same as moralism.
1.3.7. Con: Art works convey messages, knowledge and often demand an [emotional response](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1111/j.1747-9991.2010.00299.x) from the public, in doing so, art asks the public to use moral concepts and therefore its morality can be strictly linked to its potential for expression, communication and overall quality.
1.3.8. Pro: When we experience an artist's work, we are naturally initially either stimulated or not or somewhere in between.  This experience becomes muddied as time passes when we learn of the artist's behavior, political views, etc., or the viewer educates himself why such work triggered such a strong reaction internally.  But nothing will prevent a Never Trumper chocolate lover from enjoying glorious chocolate cake, even if the Donald himself baked it.
1.4. Pro: A finished work stands on its own.
1.4.1. Con: Post-modern, concept, and performance art have blurred the boundaries between artist, work, and audience, so the reputation of the artist is absolutely a factor in the subjective [analysis](https://www.khanacademy.org/humanities/art-history-basics/tools-understanding-art/a/introduction-to-art-historical-analysis) of their works. To put it another way, art is judged on technical merits \(form, technique\), subject matter \(what the art is about\), and context \(what the art means\). We cannot ignore an entire component of art analysis to soothe our ego.
1.4.1.1. Con: This discussion does not focus on any particular art movement.
1.4.1.2. Con: That level of critical rigor isn't appropriate for all art, especially in forms and genres where the artist's character is entirely irrelevant to the finished piece.
1.4.1.3. Pro: Aesthetics and philosophy vastly considered that “the appreciation and evaluation of works as art and moral considerations” were conceptually different. However, in the last decades there has been a increase in the interest of evaluating the [relationship](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1111/j.1747-9991.2010.00299.x) between the two concepts.
1.4.1.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.7.
1.4.2. Pro: Good art has a transcendent nature which an artist cannot. While the person may be a confined to a period of intolerance or injustice, it is entirely possible that their art can grow and develop in meaning with society.
1.4.3. Pro: The purpose of art is expression. The judgement of art is not judgement of the artist, but the judgement of their creative work.
1.4.3.1. Pro: People assume, that only the perspectives of "moral" artists are relevant or valuable. Even if we as a society condemn the perspectives of "immoral" individuals, we should consider them and their expression. They are a mirror to the human psyche. Over time, an immoral perspective might teach people things, they would not be able to consider otherwise.
1.4.3.2. Pro: It is the art we should celebrate and not the artist.
1.4.3.2.1. Pro: It is the art we should focus on. Great artists can be terrible people and great people can be terrible artists, therefore to solve the conundrum, focus must be on the work not the personality.
1.4.3.2.2. Pro: The response to a work of art is the relevant issue not the past of the artist. This standard should apply to all things created like policy, products etc.. The over cleansing of society as a whole is detrimental to the progress and growth of our communities not just in art but in all facets.
1.4.3.3. Pro: The key word here is "determine." If conduct or reputation of the artist determined the quality of an artwork, then the artwork would be judged solely on the artist level of conduct or reputation, and not at all on any artistic abilities.
1.4.3.4. Pro: The concept of artistic quality refers to an abstract and primarily objective judgement of technique, presentation and context. The subjective parts of artistic critique refer to preference in style. At no point does art appreciation require deference to the moral character of an artist, unless the artist is actively supporting a morally corrupt message in her work.
1.4.3.5. Con: If art is an expression, that implies authorial intent, and we can not judge authorial intent without judging the author.
1.4.3.5.1. Pro: For example, if a much celebrated painter was famous for painting cherubs and babies in all of his work as a symbol of life's innocence, but was discovered to be a rampant pedophile, it would probably change the authorial intent.
1.4.4. Pro: Most laws around copyright enforce the idea that once complete, the artist cannot retract or control it. This is to prevent an artist retracting a work from a holder for petty reasons; there are very few \(if any\) irrefutable definitions of what counts as "bad enough" to make someone unqualified from holding the work. This principle should logically extend to the artist before the completion of the work just as it does to the holder of it after the fact.
1.4.5. Con: Some works are only popular because of their creators' prior reputation.
1.4.5.1. Pro: This depends on if there existed any part of their career in which their conduct was not known. Many instances of ill-conduct emerge after the artist has produced many works, or indeed is dead. Thus, this only holds if the artist's original claim to fame was itself the ill-conduct, which is not usually the case
1.4.6. Pro: A work of art is not defined by the intention or even behaviour of its creator - it exists at the point of interaction with the audience/viewer.
1.4.7. Pro: Crimes being committed or coming to light do not change the contents or form of existing works.
1.4.8. Pro: Objectivity can allow the enjoyment of a work of art, regardless of the artist's conduct.
1.4.8.1. Pro: Being objective, it is possible to celebrate a work of art without celebrating the author of it, the same with an idea, the same with a bunch of ideas, this "ad verecundiam" of trying to associate everything to the value of a person itself is harmful to society, bad people have good art and ideas, and good people have bad art and bad ideas too.
1.4.8.1.1. Con: When we celebrate artists we are also endorsing and accepting their [worldviews](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2017/nov/14/louis-ck-sexual-misconduct-allegations-comedian-actor).
1.4.8.1.1.1. Con: Sometimes artists’ worldviews are in direct conflict with their conduct.
1.4.8.1.1.1.1. Pro: For example, many Harvey Weinstein [films](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvey_Weinstein#Film_career) reflect ideas and moral values worth achieving and have many talented individuals behind them. They should not be discarded due to Weinstein’s totally reprehensible [behavior](https://www.theguardian.com/film/ng-interactive/2017/oct/13/the-weinstein-allegations).
1.4.8.1.1.1.2. Pro: Harvey [Weinstein](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvey_Weinstein#Activism) has promoted activism against poverty and AIDS, as well as championed gun control laws and universal healthcare. One can support those values and condemn Weinstein’s abusive and harassing behaviors towards women.
1.4.8.1.1.2. Pro: If the artist's worldview is that of a criminal, it may well contain dangerous subtext that supports the artist's criminal behavior.
1.4.8.1.1.3. Con: Not necessarily. In this instance all we accept is that a perspective exists. There's no obligation to accept validity \(of the perspective\) or otherwise.
1.4.8.1.1.4. Pro: In the deification of the artist \(generally male\) as a [genius](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/10/arts/sexual-harassment-art-hollywood.html), society creates [myths](https://www.bitchmedia.org/article/myth-male-genius) about artists in which they are allowed to get away with reprehensible behaviors just because they are part of their ‘tortured personality’ and creativity. However, it is possible to change those myths and it is possible to demand artists the same moral standards any other person would be asked to follow.
1.4.8.1.1.4.1. Pro: The word "[art](https://www.etymonline.com/word/art)" comes from the Latin and [Italian](http://www.treccani.it/vocabolario/arte/) concept "to make" and was incorporated into modern parlance to encapsulate the high end of crafted work. Religions played a large part in the deification of man-made objects, turning those creating them into semi-gods, yet artists and their creations should not transcend moral wrongs.
1.4.8.1.1.4.1.1. Pro: The pseudo-religious construct of art is fraudulent: artists are just skilled craftsmen. If an artist makes something deemed ‘culturally artistic’ that does not make him or her above the law.
1.4.8.1.1.4.1.1.1. Con: By the same token, there is no other profession where we retroactively reject the products of a person's labors simply because the person is found to lack good moral character.
1.4.8.1.1.5. Con: Not necessarily, every person is a mixed bag of bad and good ideas, and we can agree on some and reject others. Someone liking a piece of art, or even an idea, doesn't mean that person agrees or "endorses" or "accepts" everything a creator thinks or does.
1.4.8.1.2. Con: As artists create cultural productions, their values and life experiences, even if reprehensible, get transmitted to their art and in turn to society as a whole.
1.4.8.1.2.1. Con: If that's the case so what? should we start banning books that haven't been made by a saint? \(meaning every book\).
Everyone is a mixed bag of bad and good ideas, and it is not only a wasteful effort to ban everything that comes from a "sinful" mind, but it is also inmoral, we have grown out \(most of us\) from the thought policing and totalitarism because we understand that ideas can be debated and thought separately, ideas depend only on the idea itself, not on who says it, it is a simple concept
1.4.8.1.3. Pro: Bad behavior is often secret, unknown or never reported, thus it is reasonable to assume that some percentage of seemingly virtuous artists \(whose work we have no qualms celebrating\) are/were, in fact, reprehensible.
1.4.9. Pro: A work of art itself need not provide any utility or pass any moral test to be judged of high quality; its creator's conduct lives equally far from, or further from, the utility/moral test.
1.4.10. Con: A finished work can stand on its own, but not necessarily. For example, a piece of art created by a prisoner of war might not be technically very good, might use poor materials etc. but once we know the context, we might be moved and have a greater appreciation of the work.
1.4.10.1. Con: While that's true of some contexts, the artist's behavior is not necessarily relevant to appreciating the work.
1.4.11. Pro: Beauty is in the eye of the beholder
1.4.12. Con: Artwork very often becomes real by its interaction with the viewer, such as the work of [Dan Flavin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dan_Flavin).
1.4.13. Con: One important way of understanding art is to understand the artist's intention. \(without intention it is very difficult, for example, to tell the difference between a bug an a feature\). Art often serves to communicate something in some sense, and so the context of that 'something' and communication cannot be separated from the work's value.
1.4.13.1. Con: Unless the artist's intention is communicated as part of the completed piece \(either in the piece itself or accompanying materials\), "intention" doesn't hold sway over the experiencd of the art \(ex: Tommy Wiseau didn't intend to create a comedy with the Room, but that is its overwhelming effect anyway\).
1.4.14. Con: The reputation of a piece of art is linked to the place it is exhibited at. The [Mona Lisa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mona_Lisa) and the Louvre, for example, are directly connected to each other.
1.4.14.1. Con: A gallery's reputation is far more dependent on the art work displayed than the reverse. The Mona Lisa isn't the Mona Lisa because of the Louvre, but the other way around.
1.4.14.1.1. Con: The power asymmetries make exhibiting spaces the ones who decide which art is worthy or not. With the exception of a few landmark works of art, most artists and artworks get validated by being in respectful and established museums or galleries, more than the other way around.
1.4.14.1.1.1. Pro: Exhibiting spaces in the commercial circuit \(galleries and art fairs\) have the power to allow an artist to sell their pieces and live from their art. Without passing that gatekeeping, artists cannot monetize their work.
1.4.14.1.1.2. Pro: Artists include in their resumes their solo exhibitions and where have they been exhibited is used as an indication of their prestige. Big exhibiting institutions are able to create a brand and capitalize their prestige with only a handful of pieces without referencing each artist they have exhibited.
1.4.15. Con: Looking through history, from where does the artist got the funding to its art is something to be asked. There are some contextual characteristics that should not be overlooked.
1.4.16. Pro: Viewers who don't know anything about the artist can enjoy the artwork.
1.4.16.1. Con: A natural curiosity about the creation of the artwork would draw the viewer to the artist, and thus the malfeasance. This would, by human nature, affect the viewer's view of the art.
1.4.16.1.1. Con: This doesn't describe the mainstream experience of art. \(most people experiencing something don't do any follow-up: eg, the great majority of ad clickthroughs are performed by [8% of the people who view them](https://www.invespcro.com/blog/effectiveness-online-advertising/)\)
1.4.17. Pro: We do not understand how artists are inspired to create their art, so we cannot say if matters of their identities and behaviors are relevant to their work.
1.4.17.1. Con: We actually know quite a lot about how artists make their work. Contrary to much public attitude, art is not a mystical possession by otherworldly spirits. Art is an intellectual discipline like literature or drama and has a body of theory built into and around it. There exist vast bodies of writing by artists, art historians and critics that examine in great depth the thinking and working processes of artists.
1.4.17.1.1. Con: Art histories and criticisms are subjective attempts to address the unknowable underlying origins of artwork; they are endlessly debatable and can never rise above the level of theory.
1.5. Con: While evaluation of art is subjective, much is illuminated by context. The creator's biography is relevant context.
1.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.1.
1.5.2. Con: Art criticism is generally overdetermined.
1.5.3. Con: A biography is a succession of contexts. Only the contexts anterior or contemporary to the piece of art can be relevant. If the negative behavior of the creator is posterior to the piece of art, then it shouldn't affect its perception. \(Unless that post behavior was already premeditated at the moment of creation, which would be part of the contemporary context.\)
1.5.4. Pro: Criticism often focuses on artistic intent, and biography is the best information we have to devise that intent absent the artist's own words.
1.5.4.1. Con: Works of art may but do not have to be manifestos. And even if they are - time can often strip them from their political or ideological dependencies \(like when political camps simply disappear or some claims are proved wrong and discussed no longer\). Therefore the "intent" may be irrelevant and if the work of art still stands - it proves the "intent" was irrelevant from the start and doesn't have to be considered.
1.5.5. Con: Evaluation of art is subjective, so choosing to discount the creator's behavior is legitimate.
1.5.5.1. Pro: The value of the work to others and  its price takes into account the artist's reputation. However, very few do so while the artist is alive. Art valuation is very confusing and often a not transparent practice.
1.5.5.2. Pro: Consider than an extraordinary work of art was created by a saint, and everyone considered it a masterpiece. If it was discovered a month later that a criminal had created the work of art, the artistic value itself would not change.
1.5.5.3. Con: If evaluation of art is subjective, choosing to consider the creator's behaviour when appreciating a work of art is also legitimate.
1.5.5.4. Pro: A fundamental inequity exists when the fame afforded by art is used as license to measure the artist against moral and ethical standards not faced by critics, shielded by their relative privacy.
1.5.5.5. Con: Art is not made objectively \(i.e. without a specific artist doing the creating\) and therefore embeds the artist's subjective experience in the work itself. It's impossible for this reason to judge a piece of art without the context from which it came.
1.5.5.5.1. Con: Artists sometimes produce works that appear to contradict their own professed worldviews.
1.5.5.5.1.1. Pro: T.S. Eliot said great writers are able to transcend their own ego and personality. This isn't always the ideal for every period of at history, but quite often we judge artists \(especially actors\) for their ability to assume many perspectives and downplay or hide their own. To this day, we don't really know what Shakespeare's personal opinions were about religion or politics, even though his plays are steeped in both of those issues.
1.5.5.5.1.2. Pro: The expression of art by an individual is not the product of their whole self, merely a reflection of their interpretation of an idea, observance or critique of a subject in time. What they aspire to be be and what they actually are may be poles apart; this is the frailty of the human condition.
1.5.5.6. Con: The conduct of an artist does matter if the artistic quality is dependent on it.
1.5.5.6.1. Con: This is.[begging the question](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Begging_the_question). This presumes that the artistic quality is dependent on the conduct of the artist while this is the postulate we are examining.
1.5.5.6.2. Pro: Much of art, film and book especially, is design to confer some moral lesson. Social justice themes permeate modern media. When art is meant to confer a moral truth, the conduct of the artist may undermine the validity of the message.
1.5.5.6.3. Pro: Some artists create artwork that makes a statement about their reputation. For example, [Manet produced sensational artworks to rebel against not being accepted to Paris Salons \(the top art society of the time\)](https://www.metmuseum.org/toah/hd/mane/hd_mane.htm).
1.5.5.7. Con: There are no official definition of what makes a piece of art good or bad. Something that is good and beautiful to one could be bad to others. Because our values and feelings are put into balance, the acts of someone can greatly influence how you feel about a piece of art.
1.5.5.8. Con: Achievements and recognition, such as awards and economic benefits, are objective and can be withheld to make a more important point.
1.5.5.8.1. Con: Punitive measures in the court of public opinion do not always equal justice.
1.5.5.9. Pro: -> See 1.4.17.
1.5.6. Con: Although context is important and the artist's personal life is one element of context, it's difficult to speculate if that portion of their life had a direct impact on the piece itself.
1.5.7. Pro: All art has a context. The fact that some art can be viewed and appreciated without context does not negate the context itself. The behaviour of the artist may be judged differently at different times or in different cultures, but there are some behaviours that cross a line in a current period in a specific culture, meaning that the artist and their work becomes 'lesser'.
1.5.8. Pro: Artists pull from personal experience to create their work. A fuller understanding of that experience must yield a fuller understanding of the work.
1.5.8.1. Con: The experience used in creating the work is not necessarily related to the artist's transgressions.
1.5.8.2. Pro: The work of a reprehensible individual may carry artifacts of that individual's low morals.
1.5.9. Con: An interesting read relevant to this topic is [The Picture of Dorian Gray by Oscar Wilde](https://www.gutenberg.org/files/174/174-h/174-h.htm). He makes the claim that art is irrelevant to the artist and how one interprets the art is not on the author. That art should be appreciated or not appreciated without relevance to the author's personal morality, views, etc.
1.5.10. Con: This discussion relates to the quality of a work of art, not the the evaluation of a work of art.
1.5.11. Con: -> See 1.4.
1.5.12. Pro: This isn't directly a "quality" comment, but it is related. A collector or consumer will only buy/consume an art piece if they connect with the piece and preferably with the artist. Negative artist behavior makes the artist \(and therefore the art\) less "connectable." Also, consuming the art supports the artist.
1.5.13. Pro: Any form of art is a medium for the artist to [express his innermost feelings](https://timjohnneal.wordpress.com/2013/06/27/the-relation-between-art-emotion-plato-aristotle-collingwood/) \(usually subconsciously\). If the artists conduct is improper, than any art they produce will have in it \(sometimes hidden and sometimes clearly\) the power to negatively affect the viewer or listener.
1.6. Con: Questioning previously held assumptions about artistic quality is the way the arts have always progressed. To place any work beyond the reach of any kind of criticism stifles artistic progress.
1.6.1. Pro: Art and its dissemination are consumer driven. If an artist's background is important to the consumer, it should be a part of its evaluation.
1.6.2. Con: Historically, a large amount of significant visual art has been disseminated with little reference to the initial artist. To claim that the art and the artist are inextricable undermines the utility of the art to stand on its own.
1.6.2.1. Con: However, in a global and interconnected world, information about the artist is nowadays almost impossible to not encounter and thus that paradigm may change.
1.7. Pro: Artists should try to keep private and public selves well separated, so their work can be appreciated purely on its own merit.
1.7.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.9.
1.8. Con: An artist's contribution to society isn't as valuable as the damage caused by their behavior.
1.8.1. Pro: Tolouse-Lautrec visited prostitutes - no big deal \(small sin/ great art work - so we overlook it\). What if we knew for a fact that Renoir was a child molester? Could/would we look at his paintings of children in the same way? Would they still be hanging in museums? Big sin - too big to overcome the value of great art work.
1.8.2. Pro: The art may be of high quality or value but supporting a living creator who behaves immorally gives tacit approval to his immoral conduct and devalues the victims of his behavior.
1.8.2.1. Con: By implication, only once a creator has died we may begin to appreiate his art. But his art was appreciable before his passing. The practical application: 1\) Determine if an artist is alive. 2\) If yes, determine if he is of strong moral character. If no, enjoy freely. 3\) If they are good, support. If they are bad, do not.

But we already know - at first sight, sound, taste - if we like the creation. Our assessment of moral character will always come after we've intuitively judged the art.
1.8.2.2. Pro: Art is difficult or impossible to recreate, that is what gives it value. The art could not be recreated without the artist creating it, or it is not the same. To enjoy the art at all is to give some kind of enjoyment towards the artist in this way.
1.8.2.2.1. Con: People recreate visual art every day. It is much easier to copy someone else's work than to create your own. Forgery is much easier than creation.
1.8.2.3. Pro: When artists are long dead, their work comes to be evaluated on its artistic merit alone \(see Wagner, for instance\). While they are alive, however, they continue to make money from their work, and to benefit from it at the expense of those they have harmed.
1.8.2.3.1. Con: It is absurd to claim that an immoral actor earning money is a benefit earned at the expense of that actor's victim\(s\). By implication, any paycheck paid to an immoral actor is earned at the expense of that actor's victims.
1.8.2.3.1.1. Con: In a capitalist economy the earnings of an individual go to support their lifestyle and values. If that lifestyle and those values involve the harming of others than, yes, every paycheck supports an artists violence against others. Or supports their care of others. This supports the phrase "vote with your wallet"
1.8.2.3.1.1.1. Con: No assumption of style of economy was made. In every economy money earned funds a person's livelihood. Money is paid for the product and quality of a person's work, not the quality of the person himself.
1.8.2.3.1.2. Con: Financially supporting an artist's work keeps them in the public eye, which can be incredibly psychologically harmful to victims of their misconduct.
1.8.2.3.1.2.1. Con: An artists place in the public eye isn't necessarily tied to financial support. Graffiti can place a person in the public eye without any financial support whatsoever. The highest grossing artwork tends to remain within closed circles of art experts and patreons.
1.8.2.3.1.2.2. Con: If an artist produced their work under a pseudonym unknown to a victim, that victim would be fully able to appreciate the artwork without any psychological harm. The harm is attached to the artist, not the artwork. Supporting the art therefore does not imply benefit at the expense of a victim.
1.8.2.3.2. Con: When an artist is dead, we don't suddenly develop the ability to separate our judgement of their work from our feelings about their life. Our artistic judgements are intuitive. The minute we see an artistic work, we judge its merit. This is the closest to a "merit alone" judgement we can achieve. Our knowledge of the artist's context further influences that judgement. But the most pure artistic evaluation we can make is the immediate impression given upon first sight \(or sound, taste, etc.\).
1.8.2.3.3. Pro: It's perfectly reasonable to chose not to buy or otherwise subsidise the work of an artist whom one does not respect, regardless of the merits of his art. Especially with living artists whose work exists in usually a well-known context of their lives, this is a personal choice and should not be questioned.  Similarly, it is reasonable for one to try to convince others not to subsidise their work, the same way one may try convince others of the merits of a product boycott.
1.8.2.4. Pro: When disreputable artists go unpunished, it can create an atmosphere hostile to certain demographics pursuing the arts, which harms the arts as a whole.
1.8.2.4.1. Con: A disreputable artist can be punished without damaging, denouncing or not recognising their work.
1.8.2.4.1.1. Con: If the artist is defined by their work, or the work defined by the artist, it would stand to reason that one could not be praised or supported without affecting the other in the process.
1.8.2.5. Con: The purchase of art or the support for an artist does not determine the artistic quality of the artwork
1.8.2.5.1. Con: The purchase of artwork by an immoral creator may give tacit approval, but even then we would be claiming that immoral people should not be allowed to make a living as artists. There are people with poor moral characters in every walk of life. This claim argues that to pay a person who is not deemed "morally good and righteous" is to approve of their behavior. This seems an unrealistic view of society.
1.8.2.6. Con: Recognizing the greatness of a piece of art does not give approval for her immoral behavior nor does it devalue victims of said behavior unless the art was created via immoral techniques or is directly causing the suffering of a victim. The critique of art itself does not require approval of the artists behavior on any level.
1.8.3. Con: The quality of a work of art may be entirely distinct from the value that work of art provides to society.
1.8.4. Pro: In extreme cases it can. Works of art should be appreciated on their own merits, but knowing that [Oscar Wilde](https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/theatre-dance/features/is-oscar-wilde-facing-a-retrial-9773718.html) and [André Gide](https://www.herald.ie/news/we-cant-name-city-park-after-wilde-who-hunted-young-boys-for-sex-27938734.html) were callous [exploiters](https://www.theguardian.com/uk/2001/may/06/books.booksnews) of innocent youth can tend to spoil the enjoyment of their writings.
1.8.5. Con: The harm visited upon an immediate victim affects that person directly. The knowledge that harm was visited upon someone else affects others indirectly and in much lesser measure. Viewers/consumers of the artist's work, however, more uniformly experience a greater average positive effect. Moreover, there are more who consume the art abstracted from the artist. Hence, quantitatively the art remains a net positive effect on humanity
1.8.6. Con: An artist and their art are separate entities. Art is interpreted in its own right. Unless the art's physical composition is altered, then its artists behavior shouldn't have any effect on its interpretation or appreciation.
1.8.7. Con: Immoral behaviour generally targets only individuals while their work affects a wider group of people.
1.8.7.1. Pro: Weinstein apparently harrased [35 women](http://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/films/news/harvey-weinstein-sexual-harassment-assault-allegations-women-names-list-rose-mcgowan-angelina-jolie-a7998851.html) \(count so far\) but his movies were enjoyed by millions.
1.8.7.1.1. Con: Each of those women have had far-reaching consequences on their careers. Each of them could have been as influential or more than Weinstein himself.
1.8.7.2. Con: Immoral behavior and associated trauma has far reaching effects.
1.8.8. Con: Sexual misconduct by artists trigger societal campaigns and discussions. In this sense, their misconduct was conducive to improve the lives of less famous individuals.
1.8.8.1. Con: This tacitly implies that the artist did a good thing by their sexual misconduct. We cannot and should not praise this kind of behaviour in any way.
1.8.8.2. Pro: The Weinstein scandal triggered the [#MeToo](https://www.nbcbayarea.com/news/local/Weinstein-Sex-Scandal-Triggers-MeToo-Movement-451181163.html) movement.
1.8.8.2.1. Con: The #MeToo movement began in 2006. The Weinstein scandal only brought it into the public eye. [nytimes.com](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/20/us/me-too-movement-tarana-burke.html)
1.8.8.3. Con: Campaigns protesting an artist's immoral behavior are not examples of that artist's social contribution.
1.9. Con: Celebrating an artists work while they are alive may give them the influence and financial resources to avoid the consequences of their abhorrent actions.
1.9.1. Pro: It is also a social tacit endorsement of their acts.
1.10. Con: The creators of great artworks are generally credited and often celebrated, and we must not celebrate criminals and other reprehensible individuals.
1.10.1. Con: Any bar we try to set for non-detrimental conduct will be arbitrary. For example, if the artwork of all criminals is to be disregarded or substantially devalued, then a huge fraction of 20th Century art \(including Beatles, and most rock music besides\) must fall into this category dues to the use of illegal drugs.
1.10.1.1. Pro: Not only drugs, but prior to the mid-1800s pretty much every person had opinions about women, gays, and non-caucasians that we would find reprehensible now.
1.10.1.2. Con: Although being illegal, the use of drugs \(for recreation or any other purposes\) may harm oneself yet not others, therefore they may not constitute a reprehensible behavior as other actions \(murder, abuse, etc\) would.
1.10.2. Con: Prominent individuals who perform reprehensible acts provide a lens for us to asses our society's values.
1.10.3. Pro: Artists often serve as role models, and their bad behavior may inspire copycats.
1.10.3.1. Pro: As a society, we try to balance between appreciation of artwork and the degree of unacceptability of an artists's behaviour. The celebration of an artist's work is not likely to be affected by the fact that he received a speeding ticket, because we do not consider that to be grave misconduct. However, if the artist is accused of child abuse, then boycott of the artist's work becomes a way for society at large to condemn certain conduct, especially by people who may be seen as role models.
1.10.4. Pro: -> See 1.4.8.1.1.4.1.
1.10.5. Pro: A piece of art is a very personal expression of its creator. To value the art is to value the artist, and what he or she stands or stood for.
1.10.5.1. Con: Society openly values art of which they know nothing about the artist. For example, Easter Island Statues, [Banksy](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Banksy), etc...
1.10.6. Con: Authorship is not clear in many forms of art, so it is not a source of artistic value.
1.10.6.1. Pro: Musical recordings, films, compiled works, and even paintings and photographs have multiple creative contributors.
1.10.6.2. Con: Authorship is often a primary point used in [marketing and packaging popular art.](https://www.librarything.com/topic/133733)
1.10.6.3. Con: Where it is known, along with other context, it can create artistic value. For example, knowing what the impressionists in late 19th century France were rebelling against helps us appreciate their work. If their work was done in China in 1950, it would have a completely different meaning.
1.10.6.4. Pro: While in the past it was considered that individual authors created cultural works, it can now be said that individuals merely synthetize ideas already present in the culture. Because of this, to laud a creator as a genius is a mistake and to dismiss an important creation because of the faults of the artist is also a mistake.
1.10.6.4.1. Con: Individuals still create cultural works. However, popular culture, as promoted through social media, Internet and television give the spotlight to specific cultural works, which gives us the impression that creators only synthetize already existing ideas.  It belongs to the public to dig in more in depth in the shadows of  culture and arts, to explore and discover new artists and ideas. As consumers of art and culture, it is our responsibility to get informed about the context of creation.
1.10.7. Con: These are individual choices, not legislative or societal.  A free individual can create, and another may, by taste or conscience, determine whether to economically support.
1.10.7.1. Con: Art \(and artists\) are often assessed by inherently social indicators such as critical consensus or price at auction. Since these are shaped by people engaged in an ongoing social exchanges, there is a clear social component to valuing artistic quality.
1.10.8. Con: There is a difference between an artist and the artist's work. They are two separate entities. Of course, they're linked and can be seen and treated as such. But one can also separate the two and admire the artistic quality of the work and on the other hand condemn the actions of the artist. To summarize, by celebrating a work of art one does not by necessity celebrate the artist.
1.10.9. Con: Expecting any person \(artists included\) to be free from regrettable actions is idealistic.
1.10.9.1. Pro: Famous artists acted immorally and their artwork is still considered of high quality.
1.10.9.1.1. Pro: Consider the filter of time. There are many works of art, visual objects, theatrical plays/scripts, musical compositions, literature, poetry, documented choreography, etc., considered "Great", created by persons for whom we no longer have specific information on how 'morally' or 'ethically' they lived their lives - even little or no information at all. Yet said art still resonates, and is treated reverently, standing on its own 'merits'.
1.10.9.1.2. Con: This does not seem to give weight to the idea that conduct should not determine artistic quality, just that, in many cases, it has little effect.
1.10.9.1.3. Pro: Even works which are themselves out-of-step with modern values [are still assessed as artistically valuable to the development of their forms](http://www.filmsite.org/birt.html).
1.10.9.1.3.1. Con: Works like Birth of A Nation, while technically important, are not widely viewed or sought-after outside of academic settings due to their contents.
1.10.9.1.3.1.1. Con: Popularity is not prima facie evidence of merit.
1.10.9.1.3.2. Pro: The application of modern sensibilities to the actions of artists as a standard is unfair to the artist since they could not have possibly been aware of such standard. By extension, the next standard  will be different and it is impossible to judge current art by a yet unknown standard. Given the subjectivity of public opinion on the conduct or reputation of the artist, it should therefore be considered a poor metric of the artist quality of said artist.
1.10.9.1.3.3. Pro: Art work should be assessed within the contemporary circumstances and values surrounding its creation.
1.10.9.1.4. Pro: Many artists hold or held oppressive views and acted accordingly.
1.10.9.1.4.1. Pro: [Richard Wagner](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wagner_controversies) is argued to have had anti-semitic views that he expressed in writing, most notably a essay titled "[Das Judenthum in der Musik](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Das_Judenthum_in_der_Musik)". After his death his work also became closely [associated with National-Socialism](http://www.dw.com/en/bayreuths-historical-ties-to-nazism/a-16121380) through the effort of Adolf Hitler who considered him his favorite composer.
1.10.9.1.4.2. Pro: [Dalí](https://broadly.vice.com/en_us/article/8qwp9v/its-really-surreal-how-salvador-dal-was-a-fascist-who-hit-women) was fascist and hit women.
1.10.9.1.4.3. Pro: [Filippo Marinetti](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filippo_Tommaso_Marinetti), the first futurist \(on which dadaism, etc builds\), was fascist.
1.10.9.1.4.4. Pro: [Georg Baselitz](https://news.artnet.com/art-world/georg-baselitz-women-painters-300663) is dismissive of art created by women.
1.10.9.1.4.5. Con: Perhaps many art consumers don't actually know of the wrongs committed by the artists.  Few know Caravaggio was murderer, Wagner was antisemitic, etc. If these things were more widely known, their art would enjoy a lesser reputation.
1.10.9.1.4.5.1. Con: But an art consumer's decision about enjoying or not a piece of art \(if based on the personal\\private life of the artist\) doesn't affect the value of the piece. He is judging improperly: if he knows something about the autor, he doesn't like his art, if he doesn't know the artist, he likes the art. This is not liking something or not, this is choosing a side based on nothing but moral.
1.10.9.1.4.5.1.1. Con: This just seems like acknowledgement that moral considerations can affect appreciation of art. You could argue that someone who judges art without the moral information is judging on incomplete data. More needs to be said to separate moral judgement from \(normatively correct\) artistic judgement
1.10.9.1.4.5.1.2. Con: It is impossible to judge art improperly
1.10.9.1.4.5.2. Pro: No art is entirely divorced from its creator’s values. If the creator of the art is still living, it is reasonable for those values to factor into an observer’s assessment of the artwork.
1.10.9.1.5. Pro: Some well-regarded artists have committed crimes.
1.10.9.1.5.1. Pro: [Caravaggio](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/italy/1396127/Red-blooded-Caravaggio-killed-love-rival-in-bungled-castration-attempt.html) killed a man in a attempt to castrate him against his will, possibly over a tennis match dispute.
1.10.9.1.5.1.1. Con: -> See 1.10.9.1.4.5.
1.10.9.1.6. Con: -> See 1.10.9.1.4.5.
1.10.9.1.7. Pro: If you go through history, nearly every artist has had a cruel side. Picasso was violent towards his family, Da Vinci and Michelangelo would be considered pedophiles in modern terms.
1.10.9.2. Pro: What we define as misconduct is, naturally, part of human behavior. We're all guilty of the same crimes, as we are motivated by the same features of our nature. None of us would like to get our lives analyzed under a microscope; as all of us hide some dead wood inside. It's always been encouraging to highlight the good contributions people make to society, and art is among the most fruitful of the bunch.
1.10.9.3. Pro: You can check the life of Rousseau and compare them with his ideas. This is important, because he was not creating art, he was creating the basis of our actual concept of democracy. So, ideas \(more than just "art"\) are separated from the author always, and we can judge the author as human, and their ideas as thesis.
1.10.9.4. Con: Academics re-consider legacy in light of new revelations in the histories of other fields, like politics. An artist's legacy is his/her work and is subject to being reconsidered.
1.10.9.4.1. Pro: Andrew Jackson's legacy has evolved and is a [subject of continuing controversy](http://www.cnn.com/2016/03/31/politics/andrew-jackson-from-revered-to-reviled/index.html).
1.10.9.5. Con: This is undoubtedly true, but our capacity to judge many complex things is based on how close they come to embodying an ideal. There is a wide gray area between an expectation of perfection and "anything goes."
1.10.10. Con: We can celebrate the art without celebrating the person.
1.10.10.1. Pro: It is possible to celebrate certain aspects of a person's conduct and at the same time disapprove of other aspects of a person's conduct.
1.10.10.1.1. Pro: It would be folly to expect someone 'normal' to produce something extraordinary, but just because a person is not normal doesn't mean their artwork will be extraordinarily good either. The quality can't be defined by the artist, and the artist can't be the only definition of worth.
1.10.10.1.1.1. Pro: Charles Manson wrote an album. The music was low quality, but that wasn't because of who Charles Manson was, it was because he wasn't very musically inclined.
1.10.10.1.1.2. Pro: Ernest Hemingway was a drunk who produced acclaimed prose.
1.10.10.2. Pro: Many artists use pseudonyms by choice, such as [Banksy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banksy). Their private conduct cannot be celebrated or condemed because the identity is unknown.
1.10.11. Pro: -> See 1.7.
1.10.12. Pro: The lives and actions of history's greatest artists \(virtues of da Vinci a great example\) are always weighed just as meticulously as their work, and greatly influences our perception of them \(da Vinci was always described as kind, gentle, passionate, etc.\)
1.10.13. Pro: -> See 1.4.8.1.1.
1.10.14. Pro: -> See 1.4.8.1.2.