Discussion Title: Should Criminal Punishments Only Be Based on Culpability?

1. Criminal punishments should be based only on the offenders' culpability rather than the damages caused by the criminal act or other outcomes derived from the punishment.
1.1. Pro: The measurements of damages or other outcomes caused by a criminal act are more vulnerable to subjectivity than the measurement of culpability is.
1.1.1. Pro: Even observable damages caused by a crime have a subjective value placed on them. The extent to which society views an outcome as damaging depends on how it perceives its impact on a community to be, or how it perceives the individual who has supposedly caused that damage. For instance, someone from a low socioeconomic community who commits a crime which impacts a more privileged community may be perceived by a court to be a greater danger to society or more desert of a longer prison sentence.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Given that courts are likely to be dominated by the privileged, the most vulnerable individuals who may be less culpable for their actions, may be punished disproportionately high. Comparatively, crimes which impact a more disadvantaged neighbourhood may be perceived to be less significant by the court, and therefore regardless of their level of culpability, that individual is punished less. This shows an imbalance in the legal system which makes it unjust.
1.1.2. Con: Even if there is a degree of subjectivity in assessing damages caused by a crime, it is far easier to objectively assess the actual impact of an individual's crimes than purely their intent or culpability. Nobody except from the individual in question truly knows what the intentions of one person really are, therefore under proposition's model, the justice system becomes even more open to the interpretations of sophisticated lawyers who can exaggerate or minimise the guilt of an individual.
1.1.2.1. Pro: The impact of this is that individuals who are already disadvantaged by the justice system are now even more vulnerable to disproportionately severe punishments. For instance prosecutors in the USA can use the perception that ethnic minorities are more likely to be aggressive and commit crime to suggest that they pose more of a threat to society than the consequences of their crime would suggest, e.g. that their full intention was murder rather than assault.
1.1.2.1.1. Pro: Including damages and consequences as a factor in an individual's punishment can therefore protect groups who are already treated unfairly by the justice system. It is, at the very least, easier to measure or at least observe than the moral calculus or culpability of an individual.
1.2. Con: Premeditated orange theft can incur higher culpability than murder in the heat of the moment. This must be wrong, because murder has a higher moral weight.
1.3. Pro: It is only legitimate to imprison persons in proportion to their blameworthiness
1.3.1. Pro: Often there can be multiple consequences that flow from particular actions. Considering you can't control the flow of these consequences, it is arbitrary to imprison individuals based on the factors outside of their control. For instance, if you shoot at someone, whether they survive or die is something which you have minimal control over. What we should focus on is the level of intent you had to harm that person rather than the arbitrary question of whether or not they survived.
1.3.2. Pro: Imprisoning innocent people is illegitimate regardless of any other positive consequences
1.3.2.1. Pro: There's a symmetry between imprisoning an innocent person and excessively punishing somewhat guilty people. We argue that guilt shouldn't be treated as a binary threshold after which it is legitimate to have consequential considerations such as deterrance. This has exactly the same level of illegitimacy as the former instance because the state is still instrumentalising the liberty of someone who is potentially not fully culpable for the consequences of their actions.
1.3.2.2. Pro: Imprisoning someone for purely consequentialist reasons e.g. imprisoning an innocent person because we can't find the murderer and this will make people feel safer, instrumentalises their liberty in a way that degrades their humanity.

To be clear, it is not that the consequences of doing so are not net positive, we don't even engage with the calculus to begin with, because we recognize it is wrong.
1.3.3. Con: If free will doesn't exist, then no one can be blameworthy for anything, and criminal justice must happen on some other metric.
1.3.3.1. Pro: Either we live in a deterministic universe, where all events have prior causes, or we live in a non-deterministic world, where events have no prior cause.
1.3.3.1.1. Pro: In the determined case, all our actions have causal chains that precede our existence, so even if we feel like we could have done otherwise, we could not.
1.3.3.1.2. Pro: In the non-deterministic case, we don't act for reasons. If our actions are the results of pure chance, like the rolling of a dice, then we can't  be held responsible either, because we have no control over our actions and could not of done otherwise.
1.3.3.2. Con: Culpability simply measures the moral merit or blameworthiness of a person, and doesn't rely on the concept that that person could of done otherwise. There are other legitimate, alternative conceptions of culpability.
1.3.3.2.1. Pro: One alternative conception is to focus on the moral wrong of a particular intention, regardless of whether or not someone could of had a different intention in a deterministic world.

If I have a strong intention to murder my mother, that is intrinsically wrong.
1.3.4. Con: There are strong consequantialist considerations when deciding on criminal punishment
1.4. Con: Consequences of actions are the most important consideration when assessing the moral weight of the crime.
1.4.1. Pro: Consequences need to be the primary consideration when deciding on criminal punishment because they reflect the moral weight of the situation. If death happens as a result of drink driving, that is a morally worse outcome than if it had not, that is why they should be treated differently.
1.4.2. Pro: Moral weight is best understood by the harms of a particular action, but harms only exist relative to victims. Insofar as proposition are concerned with instances that have no victim, they are fundamentally different in the level of moral weight and moral merit we should ascribe.
1.5. Con: Rehabilitation and Deterrence are important parts of criminal justice and should be protected.
1.5.1. Con: Rehabilitation and Deterrence can still be features of the criminal justice system on side proposition, they simply can't be considerations in the punishment.

If side proposition are in favour of treating drink driving as if they had hit and killed someone in the status quo, gaining a higher punishment, then the deterrence effect is stronger, not weaker.