Discussion Title: Should The Constitution Be Redrafted And Rewritten?

1. The Constitution should be redrafted and rewritten.
1.1. Pro: There has been vague wording that has caused major conflict on the meaning.
1.1.1. Pro: We might lose certain rights with each redraft.
1.1.1.1. Con: Most people agree that there are a certain set of rights each person has. Instead of simply deleting a section, it is more likely to be reworded or phrased to clear up the meaning.
1.1.2. Con: This vague wording has allowed us the flexibility we need between every generation.
1.2. Con: What we have is good enough and has served us well for over 200 years.
1.2.1. Con: The constitution has been unable to keep up with advances in technology, scientific understanding of human behaviour, globalization, advancements in weapons and civil rights issues; the claim that it "served us well" is not an objective fact but a subjective opinion.
1.2.1.1. Con: The U.S. has a [good claim](https://www.britannica.com/topic/Constitution-of-the-United-States-of-America) at being the oldest country to have existed continuously, as most others have had successful civil wars in the last 229 years. It seems like the US is doing something right. Considering that the Constitution is the basis for the US government, that's likely the reason.
1.3. Con: It would cause immense turmoil in the process.
1.3.1. Pro: It would be difficult to identify who has a right to have a say in the contents.
1.3.2. Pro: The Supreme Court's ruling could be ignored in a redraft.
1.3.2.1. Con: The Court's rulings may also be used as a guideline for a redraft.
1.3.3. Pro: It would take years to rewrite it.
1.3.3.1. Pro: It would be difficult to get people to agree on the wording or content.
1.3.3.1.1. Con: The government gets its ability to rule from the people. Every citizen should have a say in the process.
1.3.4. Pro: We have been divided so much by the two party system nothing would happen but more government control of our lives.
1.4. Pro: It is true that the Constitution sets constraints on the people. It performs a counter-majoritarian function. However, when large majorities are reached, the people should have the right to change their Constitution. The US Constitution fails in this regard, given the amendment process is very difficult and only a near consensus can alter or add new constitutional norms.
1.4.1. Con: The Constitution sets constraints on the federal government by the people and the states, not constraints on the people. It does this by specifically providing the powers delegated from "we the people" to each branch of government and provides checks from the other branches on those powers.
1.4.2. Con: The amendment process can't be that hard, it has been done [27 times](https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/constitution) in the 231 years since its approval.
1.5. Con: Many of the virtues of the constitution are universally valuable and it would be dangerous to risk their abandonment.
1.6. Pro: The world has changed in sweeping and profound ways since the constitution was written. We have run into severe problems as a result that have threatened the unfolding of the very fabric of the country because of its inability to keep up with these changes.
1.6.1. Pro: The constitution is outdated as there have been developments such as high capacity machine guns and the internet that the original founders could not have imagined.
1.6.2. Pro: The original founders intended for the[constitution to be rewritten](https://www.usconstitution.net/consttop_newc.html) every generation so they could have a say in the framework of the government.
1.6.2.1. Pro: This would allow the government to be flexible with the times.
1.6.2.2. Con: One generation might completely contradict another.
1.6.2.2.1. Pro: This shows that the beliefs of one generation may vary dramatically from another. This shows the need for the framework of the government to be in flux.
1.6.3. Con: The Constitution should not bow to societal norms.  The winds of change will always blow societies in different directions from generation to generation.  The Constitution should be steadfast in spite of societal changes, because the rights of The People should never change.  The "severe problems" come about when we allow those rights to be infringed upon by governments.
1.6.3.1. Pro: Regarding the second amendment - people argue that because firearms have advanced over the 200+ years since The Constitution was written, we need to change that law.  It is true that weapons have become faster, lighter, high-capacity, etc.  However, that does not change The People's right to "A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed."
1.7. Con: The Supreme Court regularly reinterprets the Constitution to meet important societal ends. This is more efficient because any constitution we create now will be outdated after the next technological revolution \(like AI\).
1.7.1. Con: This allows the constitution to constantly be rewritten by 9 justices. Their job is to interpret, not reinterpret the constitution.
1.8. Con: The Constitution of the United States is a document that affirms the natural rights of The People, and sets restrictions on the government regarding those rights.
1.9. Pro: If it extends the freedoms and rights of people then a change would honor it.
1.10. Pro: [Thomas Jefferson](https://www.usconstitution.net/consttop_newc.html) was worried about the effect of letting an unchanging constitution written by the dead affect the living.