Discussion Title: Should it be possible to buy and sell citizenships?

1. It should be possible to buy and sell nationalities on an open market.
1.1. Con: The wealthy would create there own super nationality. It would function just like a private club except on a national scale.
1.1.1. Con: Assuming that new nations cannot be created, the rich would move to an existing nation and attempt to gain control through the democratic or other political system.  There would be gentrification on a country-wide basis which would be [beneficial](https://www.economist.com/news/united-states/21644164-gentrification-good-poor-bring-hipsters) for that specific country.
1.1.2. Pro: Those lacking in capital and labour resources would tend towards those nations whose nationalities were cheapest, creating regions with little potential to improve.
1.1.2.1. Con: Cheap land values and a cheap labour force combined with low-priced immigration and a government \(hopefully\) inclined to encourage investment and growth would create optimal conditions for manufacturing growth.
1.2. Pro: It is unfair to prevent someone from living where they chose on Earth. While placing a price on nationality does not entirely solve this problem, it is an improvement on the existing system.
1.3. Con: The administration of this market would prove difficult.
1.3.1. Pro: There would be a need of quotas, in order to avoid mass immigration and overcrowded countries. Hence we would require an institution in charge of ensuring those quotas.
1.3.2. Con: No new citizenships would be created as a result of introducing this market.  Individuals would simply be able to sell their existing nationality and purchase others so the total number of people residing in a country would not increase \(unless that country's government decided to 'print' nationalities to raise capital\).  The actual number of people residing in desirable countries is likely to decrease as more individuals hold multiple nationalities.
1.4. Pro: I was born in an advanced economy, yet I do not possess the will or skills to benefit from it.  I could sell this benefit to someone who could benefit from it and enjoy the sale proceeds in a country that better meets my requirements.
1.5. Con: Human capital will polarise, creating highly developed regions and impoverished regions.
1.6. Pro: Economic migrants invest significant sums of money to enter nations illegally.  The nature of this travel is often risky and funds organised crime.
1.7. Con: By selling your nationality you deny the birth right \(or potential birth right\) of your children.
1.8. Con: If your child inherits that nationalities that you hold at the time that they are born, a rational agent would purchase the most valuable nationalities and hold them only as long as necessary for their child to inherit them.
1.9. Pro: The location that people wish to live may change during their lifetime.  They may wish to work in a different country to where they choose to retire.
1.9.1. Con: In most nations, people who move there from abroad can already acquire the respective nationality through various ways.