Discussion Title: Should Businesses Deny Service to Trump Administration Officials?

1. Businesses Should Not Deny Service to Trump Administration Officials.
1.1. Con: The selective discrimination of business and social dealings is one way we sanction each other in community. Otherwise, the only form of social order is the state. That is, by definition, a totalitarian outcome.
1.1.1. Con: I think this argument is good, although the limitations should not be restricted to "fundamental services". The argument is predicated on the assumption that the party being refused service could simply "take their business elsewhere". The deciding factor should therefore be whether or not the party being refused service could ~reasonably~ take their business elsewhere. In the example given, the Cafe owner could refuse service if there was another Cafe nearby which could be used.
1.1.1.1. Con: Ability to go elsewhere could lead to groups of discrimination where people are unable to participate, e.g. towns where some people are unwelcome, because the services exist in nearby towns or sanctioned sectioned areas within the town.
1.1.2. Pro: A free person should be able to work or not work for anyone that they choose. This includes business owners. Anything else is essentially involuntary servitude for the worker.
1.1.2.1. Con: There are consequences for such choices when one opens their business to the general public. Exclusion of groups of people may lead to lawsuits, loss of business from people objecting to the exclusion and other consequences which may lead to the bankruptcy and/or closure of the business.
1.1.2.1.1. Pro: Other patrons who see administration officials frequenting the business may leave en masse if they presuppose the owner is sympathetic to the administration's positions. The right of eviction must be preserved to protect an owner's brand reputation \(and by proxy, revenue\) with his or her customers.
1.1.2.2. Con: No one is forced to own a business, so it's not involuntary, and a business owner is working for herself, so it's not servitude.
1.1.2.2.1. Con: The business owner only consents to the act of creating a business, and consenting to that should not require consenting to serve absolutely anyone.
1.1.2.2.1.1. Pro: If it's a business that's open to the public, it's not legal to discriminate on the basis of race, gender, religion, age or disability.  Political party is not a protected class, nor is place of employment.
1.1.2.3. Pro: In the same way that individuals should be perfectly free to express their political beliefs, they should also be free to refrain from helping someone with whose political beliefs they disagree.
1.1.3. Con: The line between an essential and non-essential services is gray and therefore a poor criterion. It implies services where some people may have less privilege. Is golf essential? A segment of society should not be excluded from golf activities at the cost of business relationships, access to personal friendships.
1.1.4. Con: An alternative to selective discrimination is not necessarily totalitarian. To be totalitarian, it would need to be centralized and require submission by the people. Publicly voted rules, such as non discrimination, are decentralized given the wide societal choice involved. It is also by the people's own decision to not do something \(not unlike rules to not kill people, clearly not totalitarian\) rather than through submission.
1.1.5. Pro: A seller should be able to decide what they will sell \(vs to whom\). Being forced to sell a specific product \(vs to all people\) impedes the seller from their creative and productive choice.
1.2. Con: Administration officials should be subject to the same faith or conscience-based denial of service that the administration itself supports.
1.2.1. Pro: It is hypocritical and dishonest to insist on a particular policy but also insist it not apply to you, especially when you can change yourself while those targeted by that policy cannot.
1.2.1.1. Con: It is similarly hypocritical to oppose the ability of businesses to discriminate against customers, whilst using discrimination as a form of retaliation against those who do support that.
1.2.1.2. Con: No one is insisting it doesn't or shouldn't apply to them.
1.2.1.3. Con: This seems to be equating the refusal of service to administration officials to the case of refusal of service to the gay wedding. In the case of Sarah Huckabee Sanders, she and her family were requesting a meal; no different from any other customers meal. In the Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission case, the proprietor was being asked to create a unique wedding cake specifically for a gay wedding; an event specifically against the man's religious beliefs.
1.2.1.3.1. Con: The couple was asking for the same kind of cake the baker would have made for anyone else; SHS was looking for the same kind of meal the restaurant serves to everyone. Both restaurant meals and wedding cakes are made for the individual.
1.2.1.3.1.1. Con: The proprietor of the cake shop has stated that he was being asked to help design and create an artistic expression and the couple could purchase anything in the shop that had already been produced. The individual was not denied, only the idea; in this case, of gay marriage.
1.2.2. Pro: The GOP, having control of Congress and the White House, has the constitutional powers necessary to override the Supreme Court ruling they pushed through in the first place \(which allows discrimination\).  If they are unwilling to do so then they are passively supporting and accepting the discrimination they are publicly complaining about.
1.2.3. Con: Businesses are denying themselves the opportunity to engage meaningfully with those they disagree with.
1.2.3.1. Con: Denying service to someone who not only legislates the denial of service of others, but also foments hate and even violence against those same "others" IS engaging meaningfully. It is engaging in the only meaningful way these people will understand. Forcing them to experience the effects of their actions, showing them that their words have real-world consequences and what those consequences look like, is the best response to discriminatory polices businesses can give.
1.2.4. Con: The administration doesn't support specific denials of service. They support the laws that gives businesses the free right to do so. Regardless of political motive.
1.2.4.1. Con: This implies that the government is acting to enable wide-spread discrimination, rather than protecting its citizens from such discrimination. This would fail, in practice, as soon as people of privilege begin feeling such discrimination. Americans who favor discrimination only favor it when it works to their advantage.
1.2.5. Pro: If we support freedom - any business owner should be able to deny the service to any client. Running a business is not an obligation.
BUT it should apply to everyone. So if someone doesn't want to bake a cake for a gay wedding, they should be allowed to do so!
1.2.5.1. Con: A business owner must have a valid legal, moral or ethical reason for denying service. Your premise would allow for the owner to choose to not serve anyone with green eyes, who is balding or for the color of their skin.
1.2.6. Pro: Our choices, ideas, & especially social sanctions \(done individually everywhere, every day\) define our culture, which drives our politics. Legislating norms evokes resistance/resentment. The current Trump-driven winner/loser, divisive, emotional & uncivil communication culture renders higher civil discourse ineffective. Therefore, refusal of service is one necessary and valid form of social sanction in defining culture norms.
1.2.6.1. Pro: Christian Hobby Lobby & Masterpiece Cake Shop deny service to employees and customers to defend their religious norms. Others deny service/patronage to Trump admin to defend larger-culture norms \(we call American\), like honesty, civility, lawfulness, etc. [npr.org](https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2014/06/30/326926331/companies-can-refuse-to-cover-contraception-supreme-court-says)
1.2.7. Con: Administration officials are not employed to promote the president's opinions they are performing a national service because they are deemed to be the best person for the job.
1.2.7.1. Con: Administration officials are largely selected by the president. While they may not necessarily be employed "to promote the president's opinions," they are employed to execute the president's mission, even if they're not the absolute best person for the job.
1.3. Pro: Denying service to Trump officials only reinforces the administration's narrative that they \(and their supporters\) are victims.
1.3.1. Pro: Trump and his administration officials repeatedly insist that they are the [victims](https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/right-turn/wp/2018/06/01/trumps-twisted-view-of-who-qualifies-as-a-victim/?utm_term=.0240d16678ae) of unfair treatment.
1.3.1.1. Con: The Trump administration does this regardless of whether they're [valid in that](https://www.usnews.com/opinion/thomas-jefferson-street/articles/2018-01-31/donald-trumps-victim-complex-is-a-problem) or not.
1.3.1.1.1. Pro: Since parts of the narrative are likely based on exaggeration and falsehood, it is doubtful that the truth of the matter makes a large difference.
1.3.2. Pro: You are dealing with people and a movement that is very flexible with the truth. Because of this it is important to not give them the ability to portray themselves as victims and oppressed.  I think you should serve them, but let them know that you disagree with them at the same time. To exclude due to your beliefs and your perception of them \(which however strong you are in your conviction of being right\)  leads down a very dark road indeed.
1.3.3. Pro: This policy will also discourage people from running for office in the first place, leaving more open positions for more extreme supporters from both the left and the right.
1.3.3.1. Pro: People who are on the fence about running will now have to weigh the fact that they will be shunned publicly for pursuing policies they believe in.
1.3.4. Con: People on the Trump administration are all part of dominant group. They are not oppressed otherwise and it is good for them to see how discrimination law they support is affecting people.
1.3.5. Con: This narrative exists already. Whether businesses can deny service won’t make any major change to the narrative or how many people buy in as it’s only one small part of this narrative.
1.3.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.1.1.
1.3.5.2. Con: Most could agree that Trump's most ardent supporters will mostly deny any factual evidence that hurts Trump or his narrative, like any other emotional prone partisans. However, by denying government officials that work for Trump any service only adds to the growing division consuming our country. Acting immoral because the other side is even more immoral does not justify further retaliatory actions meant to draw greater division. They could use other outlets to resist policy.
1.3.5.3. Con: While denying service does not change the narrative, it provides easy and obvious evidence to support it.
1.3.5.3.1. Con: This administration has shown that it will create narratives even without supporting evidence, so the threat of potential supporting evidence is significantly weakened.
1.3.5.3.1.1. Con: Creating a narrative that is provably false and creating a narrative with supporting evidence to corroborate it are very different and the latter is obviously much more dangerous to Trump opposition.
1.3.6. Pro: Being able to point to concrete examples such as this makes it harder for people to call out Trump for lying about the victim narrative.
1.4. Con: The presence of Trump administration officials, especially those in the public eye or able to make their own statements, can be disruptive both to customers and a business's employees.
1.4.1. Pro: The Red Hen owner asked Sarah Sanders to leave in part because [several of her employees](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/sarah-huckabee-sanders-got-kicked-out-of-a-restaurant-because-of-trump_us_5b2e6ee4e4b0040e27434bdc) were gay and felt uncomfortable having Sanders in the restaurant as a result of the administration's stance on LGBT issues.
1.4.2. Con: Sanders was a patron and had no political agenda to push on the employees.
1.4.2.1. Con: As an administration member who makes public statements, she inherently possess a political agenda that gets pushed on employees, even if she doesn't directly do it there.
1.4.3. Con: We have to face people we don't personally agree with all the time and it's very important that we show them respect and not allow it to become personal. Associating a person with wrong think and treating them as subhuman is not good for society.
1.4.3.1. Con: -> See 1.3.4.
1.4.4. Pro: Trump officials, like other celebrities, attract paparazzi and large groups of people who want to meet them or heckle them. This can be disruptive to the day to day operations of a business.
1.4.5. Con: Denial of service should only be related to ones ability to provide a service. If it could be shown that one's business was prevented due to their presence, that would make denial of service necessary. This does not appear to be the case.
1.5. Pro: Being uncivil in the face of incivility is wrong.
1.5.1. Pro: Being uncivil towards the Trump administration makes it difficult to call out the administration's incivility without appearing hypocritical.
1.5.1.1. Con: The Trump administration has a [history](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barack_Obama_citizenship_conspiracy_theories#Donald_Trump) of [responding](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-44608999) [uncivilly](https://www.google.es/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/703974892237135873%3Flang%3Den&ved=2ahUKEwjMtKbD1fPbAhXD1hQKHZW9Ai4QFjABegQIARAB&usg=AOvVaw2aPkBlVg11daYAc28HJs2r) to civil opposition.
1.5.1.2. Con: It is unreasonable to allow the Trump administration to remain uncivil while holding their opponents to a different standard.
1.5.1.3. Pro: This can be harmful toward passing positive legislation in the future because the opposing side always has the ability to remind voters about past support for discriminatory practices.
1.5.2. Pro: In a truly Civil Society, we must confer upon those with whom we disagree *the right to be wrong.* In other words, if we aspire to civilized behavior, then we must tolerate those with whom we disagree.
1.5.2.1. Con: Some viewpoints do not deserve the benefit of "the right to be wrong."
1.5.2.1.1. Pro: Many continue to hold certain viewpoints despite being shown either a lack of evidence to support it or even large amounts of evidence to contradict that viewpoint.
1.5.2.1.2. Pro: Some viewpoints, such as racial supremacy and homophobia, are largely illogical and harmful to the point of being inarguable.
1.5.3. Con: Upholding unequal standards for civility -- e.g., equating harmful policies with refusing to serve those who promote them -- may do more harm to the long-term civility of the culture than minor acts of resistance to incivility would do.
1.5.3.1. Pro: Refusing to serve a person who promotes policies that are discriminatory and that cause harm to groups of people and/or deny them their rights is not a question of civility. Calling this "incivility" trivializes the depth of the moral objection to these officials' actions.
This is not the case of a Democrat denying service to a Republican official, which I would be the first to denounce. This is a principled stance against specific actions this person took, which is a different thing altogether.
1.5.4. Con: Non violent protest in the face of incivility is okay, being violent is wrong.
1.5.4.1. Pro: All protests are inherently [uncivil](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2018/06/the-civility-instinct/563978/).
1.5.5. Con: Neutrality helps the oppressor never the victim, silence encourages the tormentor never the tormented. The same applies to fighting incivility, remaining civil only encourages the opposing side.
1.5.5.1. Pro: Jews were advised to be [civil to Nazis](https://www.jta.org/2018/07/02/news-opinion/in-1934-an-american-professor-urged-that-jews-be-civil-to-the-nazis). Things did not work out well for them. To be civil about issues is one thing. To countenance intolerance is quite another.
1.5.5.2. Con: Civility should not be confounded with neutrality or silence. Civility does not imply apathy or a lack of a stance. It also does not imply that dissenting opinions should be silenced. Civility implies making one's claim\(s\) in a respectful and polite way.
1.5.6. Pro: Treating people with dignity and respect is an absolute social good.
1.5.6.1. Con: Treating people with dignity and respect is merely an instrumental social good that promotes cohesion and individual liberty; shaming or disrespecting people is a different instrument which can, for example, be used to discourage other antisocial behavior.
1.5.7. Pro: Sarah Huckabee Sanders was merely eating dinner with her family, not behaving in an uncivil manner. Thus, the only uncivil act was kicking her out of the restaurant.
1.5.8. Con: The Trump Administration is not just being uncivil, it is actively and intentionally harming people.  Is being uncivil in the face of evil wrong?
1.5.8.1. Pro: It is a form of natural justice. Members of the administration are complicit in policies which negatively affect the lives immigrants, LGBTQ+ people and other groups. The fact that administration members now face an inconvenience is fair play.
1.5.8.2. Con: In general, your premise that "actively and intentionally harming people" is correct, however there are caveats and exceptions to this. e.g. self defence, defence of others, conducting a war, enforcing standing law or codes.
1.5.8.2.1. Con: Enforcing discriminatory laws or codes, or enforcing laws in harmful or cruel ways, is not justified.
1.5.8.2.1.1. Con: If laws or codes are truly discriminatory and the enforcement of them is cruel then the redress is to petition the legislature to change the law. As long as a "bad" law is on the books, it is subject to enforcement.
1.5.8.2.1.1.1. Con: Petitioning the legislature may prove slow or even futile.
1.5.8.2.1.1.2. Con: Bad laws, if sufficiently bad, can be struck down by courts. Therefore, petitioning the legislature is not THE redress.
1.5.8.2.1.1.2.1. Con: A court would first have to find that the law either violates a law with higher precedence or the constitution; the highest legal precedence in US law.
1.5.8.2.1.1.2.1.1. Con: The process of how a court operates does not change the fact that is a way to seek recourse.
1.5.8.2.1.1.2.2. Pro: Constitutional law evolves over time because many of the challenges facing our country today could not have been imagined by those living in the time of the American Revolution. Thus, courts by necessity are in charge of applying constitutional principle to laws that don't have well established jurisprudence behind them.
1.5.8.2.1.2. Con: By your logic, anyone who could claim a punishment is harmful or cruel should be released. All punishments are "harmful" to some extent or there is no deterrent to disobeying the law.
1.5.8.2.1.2.1. Con: Punishment can be evaluated based on whether it produces net harm or net good. Ergo, a punishment is harmful if it produces net harm, and is cruel when net harm is extreme.
1.5.8.3. Con: Someone doing something wrong is not license to do the same.
1.5.8.3.1. Con: This assumes that the responding action, in this case the denial of service to a member of a particular presidential administration, was "wrong" which is the discussion at hand.
1.5.8.3.2. Con: Retaliating in kind can often be a good way to prevent the exercise of immoral actions in the future.
1.5.8.3.3. Pro: Treating someone unfairly due to a past allegiance is hardly just. Everyone has a right to their opinion, but it should be the duty of citizens to support equity in treatment to uphold the image of American morals and ideals.
1.5.8.3.4. Pro: There is no proof that the government officials have done anything "wrong."
1.5.8.3.4.1. Con: The Mueller investigation has [resulted](http://www.latimes.com/projects/la-na-mueller-investigation-one-year/) in 5 guilty pleas and 17 indictments.
1.5.8.3.4.1.1. Con: The criminal actions of a few during the campaign does not tar everyone who works in the administration now.
1.5.8.3.4.1.2. Con: Most of these indictments are against actual Russians. The guilt pleas are for lying to the FBI...just like Martha Stewart.
1.5.8.3.4.2. Pro: "Wrongness" is relative. To some, the Trump administration upholds their rights and the rights of the citizens who voted them into power. Without a metric for assessing inherent "wrongness" denial of service becomes an arbitrary punishment people dole out when they feel like it.
1.5.8.3.5. Pro: Even though they may work for the Trump administration, representatives may not agree with all of his problematic viewpoints.
1.5.8.3.5.1. Con: -> See 1.5.8.1.
1.5.9. Con: Civility in the face of incivility isn't the moral high ground; it's passive acceptance.
1.5.9.1. Con: The success of groups like [Life After Hate](https://www.lifeafterhate.org/) show that civility and compassion can be effective ways to counter incivility and even the views of radical white supremacists.
1.5.9.2. Pro: -> See 1.5.5.
1.5.9.3. Pro: -> See 1.5.8.
1.5.10. Con: The incivility of denying service is on a different, much less severe level than the incivility of the Trump administration and can therefore not be judged by the same standards.
1.5.11. Pro: -> See 1.5.8.3.
1.5.12. Pro: "Civility" should be one of our highest values. Freedom is, of course, at least an equally important value. But a thoughtful consideration of a world where Trumpians / Republicans are denied services \(at restaurants, at theaters, etc.\) will soon devolve into something most of us won't like.
1.5.13. Pro: The American political system works better when people are treated with civility and respect.
1.5.13.1. Pro: The American political system often requires cooperation between Republicans and Democrats in government. The parties will be more willing to cooperate if there is an environment of mutual respect and civility.
1.5.13.1.1. Con: It is difficult to move forward on a basis of mutual respect and civility when many of those on one side hold beliefs that, based on orientation, race, ethnicity, gender, etc., others are lesser than them.
1.5.13.1.1.1. Con: Ad Hominem; This is simply saying many Republicans and conservatives are racist, sexist, homophobes. Also civility does not require respect.
1.5.13.1.2. Con: Republicans were unwilling to cooperate with Democrats long before these perceived acts of incivility, like when they blocked [Obama's Supreme Court nominee](https://www.theguardian.com/law/2016/feb/23/obama-supreme-court-nominee-senate-hearing-vote) or claimed their main goal was to make Obama a ['single-term president"](https://www.politico.com/story/2010/10/the-gops-no-compromise-pledge-044311).
1.5.13.1.3. Pro: As political polarization has increased, [Congress](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2014/09/23/congress-still-on-track-to-be-among-least-productive-in-recent-history/) has passed fewer [laws per session](https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Vital-Statistics-Chapter-6-Legislative-Productivity-in-Congress-and-Workload_UPDATE.pdf).
1.5.13.2. Con: Trump has repeatedly disparaged and insulted people with whom he disagrees. Treating him and his officials with respect only legitimizes their tactics and emboldens them to continue.
1.5.13.2.1. Pro: Trump has used his platform to insult, as of now, nearly [500](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/01/28/upshot/donald-trump-twitter-insults.html) different people and things.
1.6. Con: Denying service to Trump officials is a form of [passive resistance](http://www.dictionary.com/browse/passive-resistance).
1.6.1. Pro: When people don't get to express themselves one way, they often find another, such as violence. Allowing a little of this is good if it prevents greater acts of resistance.
1.6.1.1. Con: When you allow small acts of resistance, it only increases the taste for resistance.
1.6.1.1.1. Pro: Likewise, when small acts of resistance are crushed, any taste for further resistance is also crushed, as evidenced by the lack of substantial democratic [uprisings](http://journalofdemocracy.com/sites/default/files/Beja-20-3.pdf) in mainland China since the Tiananmen Square massacre.
1.6.1.1.2. Con: Virtually all free countries allow small acts of resistance, and yet their political systems and societies are stable.
1.6.1.2. Con: It would be better to be gracious and provide room for dialogue rather than simply shutting people out.
1.6.1.3. Con: It is unlikely that the average business owner will violently attack the Trump administration if they are unable to refuse service to some of its officials.
1.6.1.4. Con: This necessarily assumes that only some resistance is legitimate and some is not. By policing one's ability to resist, it necessarily limits the policies or institutions to which they can resist.
1.6.1.4.1. Pro: Social justice movements often require radical action, not sanctioned by the mainstream, in order to achieve their goals.
1.6.1.5. Pro: Individuals may want to resist but cannot due to their job, lack of spare time, money etc. This provides an avenue for people to be able to engage in some resistance, and feel they are making some progress. This feeling of progress reduces their general level of anger at the Trump administration as they feel it's a comparatively better world.
1.6.1.5.1. Pro: If they cannot resist, then frustration grows as people feel powerless and that the world is getting worse. Thus, in desperation, they will engage in more radical action.
1.6.2. Pro: Passive resistance is a successful concept.
1.6.2.1. Pro: [A study](https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/libya/2014-06-16/drop-your-weapons) which examined hundreds of resistance movements of the 20th century came to the conclusion that passive and nonviolent movements were twice as likely to succeed as violent movements.
1.6.2.2. Con: Passive resistance alone was not enough to overthrow the [apartheid](https://www.apartheidmuseum.org/sites/default/files/files/downloads/Learners%20book%20Chapter4.pdf) system in South Africa.
1.6.2.2.1. Con: Apartheid withstood violent resistance for decades, [and global economic and diplomatic sanctions](https://www.mtholyoke.edu/~shafi20k/fall.html) were necessary to overthrow the system.
1.6.3. Pro: Trump has acted in a manner that is both inconsistent with and directly opposed to American values, so it is legitimate to resist him and his administration where possible.
1.6.4. Pro: Expressing disapproval of Trump's policies by denying service to his officials is better than violent opposition.
1.6.4.1. Con: Saying that denying service is better than violence is true. However, offering violence as an alternative validates it as an option. Violence may indeed occur, but it's not a valid way to respond to disagreements.
1.6.4.2. Con: Doing nothing may be better than both passive and violent resistance.
1.6.4.2.1. Con: When it comes to promoting, advocating for, and defending human and civil rights, "doing nothing" is unlikely to be better than some form of resistance.
1.6.4.3. Pro: -> See 1.6.1.
1.6.4.4. Con: This is a false dichotomy. It assumes that people can only choose between violence or denying service, which is not the case.
1.6.5. Con: Were the “passive resistance” shown to the previous administration, it would be termed “racism”.
1.6.5.1. Con: Opposition to President Obama was so fierce in Republican politics that a popular politician provoked outrage by[thanking Obama](https://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/20/us/politics/after-embrace-of-obama-chris-christie-woos-a-wary-gop.html) for helping his state after a hurricane.
1.6.6. Pro: Denying service to Trump officials highlights the unfairness of some recent developments in Trump's America, such as the [separation of children](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/28/us/trump-immigrant-children-lost.html) from their parents when they cross the border.
1.6.7. Pro: -> See 1.5.5.1.
1.6.8. Con: Passive resistance, such as denying service to black people or women, does not mean it is necessarily good or okay.
1.6.9. Con: Not being able to buy a sandwich from a restaurant is not going to change the opinions or actions of the Trump administration staff. All this does is make restaurant owners feel like they’re doing something.
1.6.9.1. Con: The fact that Trump himself commented on the Red Hen case \(and we are now debating it\) shows that even one individual's actions can have an impact.
1.6.9.2. Pro: Organized resistance is more effective than localized, random acts.
1.6.9.2.1. Pro: Organized [events](https://www.aarp.org/politics-society/history/info-2018/civil-rights-events-fd.html#quest1) and [groups](https://www.thoughtco.com/organizations-of-the-civil-rights-movement-45363) were most effective in bringing change during the Civil Rights Movement.
1.6.9.3. Con: Feeling effective has its own positive impact on a person.
1.6.9.3.1. Pro: If a person feels like they can make a difference, this might encourage them to engage in other types of activism.
1.6.9.4. Con: Any movement of social resistance necessarily consists of a collection of small, personal actions of conviction. The fact that a single individual's action will not itself cause change is not a persuasive reason to refrain from participating in resistance.
1.6.9.4.1. Pro: The civil rights era often gets painted in light of big events, it was largely driven by small acts of resistance such as sit-ins.
1.6.10. Con: This is wrong in all forms, we want a change and denying service to anyone just makes things a whole lot more complicated than they already are. Even thought this is passive, it does nothing good for anyone but the evil satisfaction of the individual who is denying the service. No matter what you believe in, it is still wrong to deny service to anyone simply because you don’t like who they are or what they do.
1.6.11. Con: Denial of service is not passive. It's an active protest.
1.7. Con: In capitalism, our most powerful democratic tool is our dollar, whether that be spending it ethically or sacrificing it commercially.
1.7.1. Pro: Economic boycotts are a [historic part of civil rights movements.](https://libguides.marymede.vic.edu.au/americancivilrights/economicboycotts)
1.7.2. Con: An individual's most powerful democratic tool should be their vote, since votes are distributed equally, unlike money.
1.7.2.1. Con: Money is a big influence on our politics and to that end - our vote. So, why not use all powers of persuasion afforded to the citizen to include organized economic boycotts, which unlike voting every 2 years, is immediate and historically just as effective.
1.7.2.2. Con: Unfortunately votes are not counted equally.  More [Americans voted](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2016/11/22/13708648/democrats-won-popular-vote) to have a Democratic President, Democratic Senator, and Democratic Representative than a Republican President, Senator and Representative. Yet the White House, Senate and House are in Republican hands.
1.7.3. Pro: Americans - going all the way back to the daughters of liberty - have used the power of consumption in an attempt to change policy at the highest levels. It also proves to be incredibly effective and a tactic used on all sides of the aisle.
1.7.3.1. Con: This claim addresses the consumers, not suppliers.
1.7.4. Con: No matter what side of the aisle they are on, most businesses will suffer by alienating half of the population.
1.7.4.1. Con: Not necessarily. There are plenty of people that would be willing to increase the amount of times they go to a business because they refuse the service of Trump administration officials. It is an easy way to go viral and gain the support of the general public.
1.7.4.2. Pro: Business are free to deny service to any customer based on the customer's socio-political belief. However, the business will be at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors who do not discriminate based on socio-political beliefs.
1.7.4.2.1. Con: Businesses that promote themselves by these acts of resistance may attract more customers who share their views than they lose due to the policy, and may thus become more competitive in certain niches.
1.7.4.2.2. Pro: Market forces will naturally produce negative consequences when a business sets itself against a political organization and, by extension, its supporters.
1.7.4.2.2.1. Con: This is true only when those political supporters maintain economic power for a long enough period of time. The staying power of Trump's popularity is unclear.
1.7.4.3. Con: Most political divides aren't a 50-50 split, so businesses who take stands on the more popular side benefit more than they lose.
1.8. Pro: Denying services to citizens you disagree with could easily escalate in to a dangerous tit for tat exchange.
1.8.1. Pro: This behaviour will legitimise Republican businesses denying service to Democrats, which is harmful to Democrats in majority-Republican areas and worsens political polarisation.
1.8.1.1. Con: The problem, though, is not necessarily with all Republicans, it's those who idealize, follow, or behave like Trump.
1.8.2. Pro: If you are going to screen your customers then you are obligated to post a sign at the door for all to see. You must also have a valid way to vet all your customers. Gets kind of insane after awhile.
1.8.2.1. Con: The actions have been directed at individuals, not groups.  Decisions are made on a case-by-case basis.
1.8.2.1.1. Pro: So far the individuals targeted have all had prominent roles in carrying out or justifying heinous policies.
1.8.2.1.1.1. Con: The range of targets is much larger than the noted group. Any sign of agreement can lead to [messy results.](https://www.theepochtimes.com/left-wing-protesters-throw-feces-at-kosher-cafes-windows-for-owners-trump-support_2596562.html)
1.8.2.1.2. Con: The actions have been directed at individuals for being part of a group: The Trump administration. The owner of the Red Hen claimed that her presence disturbed her LGBTQ employees. You would think they would be more sympathetic as Sarah has been [accused](https://www.datalounge.com/thread/19368813-is-sarah-huckabee-sanders-a-big-ole-diesel-dyke-) of being a lesbian for years. \(as if there is anything wrong with that\)
1.8.3. Con: Denying service to members of the Trump administration is categorically different from denying service to all people with whom you disagree. It targets a very small, easily identifiable subset of the population, so it would not generalise to discriminating against lots of other people.
1.8.3.1. Con: Whether or not it generalises in principle is irrelevant; what matters is whether Trump supporters are likely to observe this behaviour and retaliate.
1.8.3.2. Con: The only categorical difference between denying service altogether to members of the Trump administration and to all people you disagree with; and to be more specific, on a moral, ethical or political basis, is that Trump administration members are publicly known to hold those beliefs as opposed to those who hold those beliefs but are less easily identifiable.
1.8.4. Con: Probably, in the short run.  However, the market will discipline that kind of action and a relatively mild equilibrium should emerge as those who wish to survive realize that random unpredictable discrimination is terrible for business.
1.8.4.1. Con: Mischaracterizes the "discrimination" as "random" and "unpredictable" when both sides are being driven by moral and ethical beliefs.
1.8.5. Con: Tit for tat can be a strong and uniquely effective strategy for calling somebody's attention to the social or ethical impact of their own behavior.
1.8.5.1. Con: According to game theory in the social sciences, the [Tit for Tat Strategy](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/tit-for-tat.asp) illustrates how cooperation, rather than retaliation, makes people better off.
1.8.5.1.1. Con: The assumption of this game theory model is that the other player will cooperate unless you first provoke them. The Trump administration is currently not cooperating with liberal groups, so the assumption doesn't hold in this case.
1.8.6. Con: The reason to deny service to Trump Administration officials is not because of what they believe but because of what they do.  Should a child abuser expect to be politely served a cup of coffee between victims?
1.8.7. Pro: Shortly after the incident with Sarah Sanders, Trump [threatened](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-44608999) retaliation along similar lines on Twitter.
1.8.7.1. Con: Trump's statement was not a threat; it was a warning that actions have consequences. The statement did not directly indicate whether the consequences would be retaliation or actual violence from Democrat supporters.
1.8.8. Pro: Denying service segregates ideas instead of an exchange of ideas. Dividing the country on political beliefs is dangerous for our republic. Further division only drives deep seated hatred. Until we can start to talk to each other like grown adults and exchange ideas and build on the good one, we are in for a tough future. Politicians used this tactic for far too long. Nothing is resolved without communications that are open and honest.
1.8.9. Pro: Denying services to people who do not share one's political beliefs creates a dangerous precedent which can easily be extended to include discrimination based on non-political beliefs, like gender, sexual orientation or the stance on abortion.
1.8.9.1. Con: Some "political" beliefs are already based on negative biases concerning gender and orientation. Denying service because of those beliefs, especially if those denied service are vocal and adamant in them, is arguably defensive and thus different from denying service based on gender & orientation.
1.8.9.2. Con: Demonstrating a refusal to accept the discrimination on the basis of race, religion and sexual orientation is a reasonable basis for refusing service to a person who has worked to support such things.
1.8.9.3. Pro: This kind of policy in law would be incredibly ambiguous as denying service on the basis of ‘political views’ could be interpreted many ways e.g. arguing being Islam is a different ‘political view’ and therefore service need not be given.
1.8.9.3.1. Pro: Nearly every issue or belief carries some political implication.
1.8.10. Pro: The rift between the American people will widen if businesses start denying services to customers that don't share business owner's political beliefs. This will benefit America's enemies.
1.8.10.1. Pro: The unwillingness to interact with individuals who hold different political views is one reason why America has become so polarized today.
1.8.10.1.1. Pro: One [study](https://www.citylab.com/life/2016/04/a-10-minute-face-to-face-conversation-can-reduce-prejudice/477507/) has found that just a 10-minute face-to-face conversation can make people more open to different views and reduce prejudice.
1.8.10.1.2. Pro: In America, attitudes towards the opposition party have become [increasingly negative](http://www.people-press.org/2014/06/12/political-polarization-in-the-american-public/) over the past few decades.
1.8.10.1.3. Con: Refusing to interact with any political views is silly, but refusing to interact with political views that potentially endanger you or your community is legitimate and within anyone's right.
1.8.10.1.4. Pro: Only by engaging in meaningful dialogue can we hope to change the minds of those whose views we find repugnant
1.8.10.1.4.1. Con: It is rare for people with strong views to change those views, and rarer still for such a change to happen as a result of dialogue as opposed to life experience.  The point of such dialogue is rather to influence other people whose views are unformed or weakly held, but this works only when both sides respect the truth and argue rationally.
1.8.10.1.4.2. Con: Engagement on views does not come in the interaction one has with their waiter and is not going to change due to a short conversation.
1.8.10.1.4.3. Pro: Refusing service legitimises the narrative that the left shouldn't engage with Trump supporters. Trump supporters both feel victimised and are less likely to want to engage as they now view the other side as more adversarial. This lack of engagement builds political polarisation.
1.8.10.1.4.4. Con: Engaging in a dialogue with members of the opposite side can sometimes increase polarization of ideologies [Exposure to Opposing Views can Increase Political Polarization](https://osf.io/preprints/socarxiv/4ygux) and lead to greater prejudice if the experience isn't optimal. [The Contact Caveat](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.891.4986&rep=rep1&type=pdf).
1.8.10.1.4.5. Pro: When people are defensive, it is impossible for them to be reflective and evaluate their beliefs.
1.8.10.1.5. Con: When one party in a bipartisan system controls the presidency, the Senate, and Congress, affecting the private lives of officials may be the only way to influence them to fall outside of party lines and change their voting practices.
1.8.10.1.5.1. Con: There are a variety of other, much more legitimate and civil ways of influencing those in power available. First of those are the national elections that take place every two years.
1.8.10.1.6. Con: The polarization of American politics long [predates](https://www.wsj.com/articles/polarization-is-an-old-american-story-1517613751) the recent lack of bipartisan communication.
1.8.10.1.6.1. Con: This does not change the fact that refusing service to Trump administration officials will only exacerbate this polarization.
1.8.10.1.6.2. Con: There are indicators that polarization is getting stronger and stronger in recent times.
1.8.10.1.6.2.1. Pro: During the Clinton era, [up to 40%](https://news.gallup.com/poll/116584/presidential-approval-ratings-bill-clinton.aspx) of Republican voters approved of his work; during Bush's first term, a [similar share](https://news.gallup.com/poll/116500/presidential-approval-ratings-george-bush.aspx) of Democrats approved of his work at times. Under Trump, [no more than 13%](https://news.gallup.com/poll/203198/presidential-approval-ratings-donald-trump.aspx) of Democrats ever approved of his work.
1.8.10.1.7. Pro: Perceptions of the Trump administration [differ radically](https://news.gallup.com/poll/203198/presidential-approval-ratings-donald-trump.aspx): while about 90% of Republicans approve of how the President does his job, only about 5% of Democrats do.
1.8.10.2. Pro: Regardless of whether America's enemies benefit, deepening rifts are intrinsically harmful to the health of American society.
1.8.10.2.1. Con: Rifts themselves are not inherently harmful- some rifts form in relationships, but those relationships are toxic, so those rifts lead to breakups, which ends up being better for all parties involved.
1.8.10.2.1.1. Con: In this case, the breakup would mean the break up of American society. This has happened only once before in American history, resulting in the Civil War.
1.8.10.2.2. Pro: If social rifts form, people will become less sympathetic to others who don't share their political affiliation. This drives political parties further to the extremes and reduces the probability of bipartisan cooperation.
1.8.10.2.3. Con: American society has had partisan divides on many social issues for decades that simmered under the surface. Pushing these rifts into the public debate may actually allow common ground to be found and help unify the nation.
1.8.10.3. Con: Or it won't.  It may very well lead to the fragmenting of the two tribes as discrimination occurs within as more nuanced moral and ethical differences are able to be expressed.
1.8.10.4. Pro: Opponents of liberal democracy will use stories of officials being denied service as justification for strong arm tactics to better control their citizens.
1.8.10.4.1. Con: Right, except that any legal requirement to not discriminate against anyone ever if you operate in the marketplace essentially turns anyone in the marketplace into someone unable to render moral judgment or even basic decisions over who to do business with. That's *quite a bit* of control over citizens just to prevent control over citizens.
1.8.10.5. Pro: -> See 1.8.10.1.4.
1.8.10.6. Con: This point is moot, as other Americans have had their rights upheld to withhold private services based on socio-political belief \(e.g. bakers being allowed to refuse service to same-sex couples\). Denying service to customers based on social or political belief is already accepted practice, irrespective of the consequences, so it would be inconsistent to prohibit it in this case.
1.8.10.6.1. Con: Jack Phillips \('The Baker'\) did not refuse to bake every item for the Couple; however, he did refuse to bake a wedding cake specifically. Additionally, due to his artistic and religious beliefs, he does not make adult themed cakes, Halloween themed cakes, or any other themed cake which conflicts with his beliefs, regardless of the prospective customers' demographic. [¹](https://youtu.be/coBIZle18kM)
1.8.10.6.1.1. Con: As in the case of this baker, the business owner has the option of denying those services which would conflict with their own beliefs. Since Mr. Phillips only disagreed with certain values of his customers, he was free to withhold only those services. A business that disagrees with all of the administration's positions would, by the same rationale, be free to withhold all services.
1.8.10.6.1.1.1. Con: This statement misrepresents the rationale for withholding some services. To accurately project this rationale the statement should be:"A business that disagrees with all of the administration's positions would, by the same rationale, be free to withhold all services" that could to construed as supporting any one or more of the administrations positions.
1.8.10.6.2. Con: The SCOTUS decision did not actually side with the baker. It simply stated that the state of Colorado did not take the bakers strongly held religious beliefs into consideration when it found against the baker.  It was the process used by the Colorado commission the SCOTUS said was the problem.  They did not rule on the right of the baker to refuse to create a wedding cake for the couple. They did note that the commissions comments were also prejudicial regarding the bakers beliefs.
1.8.10.6.3. Con: -> See 1.7.4.2.
1.8.10.6.4. Con: The prompt is "Should businesses Deny Service" not "Do businesses have a right to deny service". I think private business owners do have the right \(to an extent\) to deny services based on their own region/political beliefs, however I think it would be folly for businesses to refuse to serve individuals with the sole reason being opposing political views.
1.9. Pro: -> See 1.8.10.1.4.
1.10. Pro: Discrimination based on where you work and what your beliefs are is [illegal](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/volokh-conspiracy/wp/2016/11/25/can-businesses-refuse-to-serve-or-employ-trump-supporters/?utm_term=.7595e80c8cd2) in some places.
1.10.1. Con: Not exactly.  Beyond protected classes, business can discriminate for pretty much any reason.  To my knowledge there is no protection based on employer or general beliefs \(beyond specific classes of belief\).
1.10.1.1. Con: There are exceptions as stated in the provided link.
1.10.2. Pro: Businesses should not disobey laws simply because they disagree with them; this would break down the norms which allow legal systems to function.
1.10.2.1. Con: Resistance often involves breaking the law, as the law upholds a social norm that one wants to change.
1.10.3. Con: From the article: "A few cities or counties do ban such discrimination. D.C. bans discrimination based on 'the state of belonging to or endorsing any political party.'" - The business did not discriminate against all republicans, but refused service to a specific individual based on her actions and personal identity - like banning a celebrity caught up in a controversy.
1.11. Pro: Strictly as a business decision, it’s most likely a costly mistake \(loss of significant patronage\).
1.11.1. Pro: Many people support Trump and will not want to pay businesses who refuse to serve someone who they believe is helping America.
1.11.2. Pro: Even those who do not support Trump may believe this action is too extreme and consequently consume elsewhere. Liberals for example may see it as contradictory, given the recent news of the LGBT couple being refused service in a bakery.
1.11.3. Con: Left-wing people \(generally\) tend to live in [urban areas](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2012/11/red-state-blue-city-how-the-urban-rural-divide-is-splitting-america/265686/), and be working professionals with large amounts of [spending power](https://budgetandthebees.com/who-is-richer-democrats-or-republicans/). Many may lend support to businesses who do this as they are also opposed to Trump.
1.11.3.1. Con: This is an unsupported generalization lacking a credible source. Census data shows approximately [80%](https://www.census.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2016/cb16-210.html) of all Americans live in urban areas, yet Clinton won the total popular vote by [2.86 million out of nearly 130 million votes](https://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2016/1222/Clinton-wins-US-popular-vote-by-widest-margin-of-any-losing-presidential-candidate), less than a 3% difference. I fail to see how this 3% difference would offset a nearly 33% decrease.
1.11.3.1.1. Con: This is using a different definition of "urban". The Census Bureau says: "To qualify as an urban area, the territory identified according to criteria must encompass at least 2,500 people, at least 1,500 of which reside outside institutional group quarters." \[source\]\([www.census.gov](https://www.census.gov/geo/reference/ua/urban-rural-2010.html)\) This would include suburbs that are generally regarded as being more conservative. "Urban area" as a colloquial term tends to conjure up the image of a dense city center.
1.11.3.1.1.1. Con: Using the "colloquial term" leaves "urban" as poorly defined. By your explanation "urban" could also include the "ghetto" and/or slums. Most people would not think of such areas as containing "working professionals with large amounts of spending power."
1.11.4. Pro: -> See 1.7.4.
1.12. Pro: -> See 1.8.10.
1.13. Con: The Trump Administration's actions and policies are so anathema to American ideals that members of the administration deserve to be shunned from public life.
1.13.1. Con: Excluding people from public life only ensures that their beliefs will become more radical and embittered.
1.13.2. Pro: -> See 1.5.8.1.
1.13.3. Con: Not all employees in the Trump administration are directly responsible for his policies.
1.13.3.1. Con: No matter how small their contribution is, every official's work helps solidify Trump's positions and policies.
1.13.4. Con: Since Trump won the election, your assertion that his administration's policies are anti-American is not shared by a large number of voters.
1.13.4.1. Con: [Trump lost the popular vote](https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/hillary-clintons-popular-vote-win-came-entirely-from-california/)- his presidency as a whole is against the desires of most of the American people. Therefore, if election results are a criteria for determining whether or not something is anti-American, his administration is anti-American.
1.13.5. Con: 'Eye for an eye' retaliation attitudes will not help matters. 'They are discriminatory so WE will be as well'. This will only serve to polarize further a country which is already at a dangerous level.
1.13.6. Pro: Because citizens do not have the power to put people in prison, societal shame is their only mechanism for expressing disapproval of a person's conduct.
1.13.6.1. Con: If a person engages in illegal conduct, the legal system usually takes care of that and no shaming is necessary.
1.13.6.2. Con: There is no reason to assume that all employees of the Trump administration engage in behavior that deserves a prison sentence.
1.13.7. Pro: Trump's policies are supported by, and some of his staff members are, members of the [white-supremacist](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/trump-sends-us-down-a-rabbit-hole-of-white-supremacy/2018/06/25/1ca1cfca-78b8-11e8-93cc-6d3beccdd7a3_story.html?utm_term=.31015b37ce21) movement.
1.13.7.1. Con: It's patently wrong to assume guilt by association. Until you have positive evidence of membership of a white supremacist movement/group, the default position is that an individual is not.
1.13.7.1.1. Pro: There are [articles disputing](http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/article/2017/aug/15/are-there-white-nationalists-white-house/) membership and/or support of white supremacist groups by Trump administration members. Whereas support of white supremacy is more difficult to proof, the statement that they hold membership can be concretely proven. I await this concrete proof before accepting this claim as fact.
1.13.7.1.2. Con: Associating with individuals and companies with ties to white supremacy, without openly challenging those views, makes one complicit with those views.
1.13.7.1.3. Con: Whenever people try to find out the truth, they should simply ask which option is most likely to be true. Applied to white supremacy, if it seems more likely than not someone is a white supremacist then they should be treated as one even if that proof is not absolute.
1.13.7.2. Con: The web address of the link contains "opinion." The article is supported only by conjecture as to motivation of others. The article also conflates resistance to illegal and legal immigration.
1.13.7.2.1. Con: Opinion pieces are supported by evidence.
1.13.8. Con: It is highly subjective what American ideals are and what actions live up to them.
1.14. Pro: Businesses open to the public should not deny service to anyone for any reason other than for immediate health or safety reasons.
1.14.1. Pro: Denying service based on political beliefs is discriminatory.
1.14.1.1. Con: There is no law which states this. The Red Hen denied Sanders service because as they stated she is a liar. Liars are not a protected class under current American law. You'll find you can deny employment to liars, deny them service, you can even fire someone for being a liar.
1.14.1.1.1. Con: That is a slippery slope. Most people have lied in their lives and using that \(or any other arbitrary trait\) not protected by American law selectivly would enable to disciminate for any reason.
1.14.2. Con: Trump administration officials arguably present inherent health and safety concerns.
1.14.2.1. Pro: The Trump administration is widely recognized as actively and manifestly bigoted. Having people who literally think of you as lesser or undeserving of having all of your rights recognized is emotionally and psychologically damaging.
1.14.2.1.1. Pro: The Trump Admin has used white-supremacist talking points.
1.14.2.1.1.1. Pro: Advisor [Stephen Miller](https://rewire.news/article/2018/03/14/time-honest-stephen-miller-whose-radical-vision-u-s-immigration-spreading/) is known to use white supremacist rhetoric.
1.14.2.1.1.1.1. Con: The article referenced make use of "talking points and phrasing" used by white supremacists. One such talking point is the fact that the plaque with the poem "The New Colossus" was not originally part of the statue of liberty but added in 1903. This fact is used to undercut Democrat claims that the statue of liberty is and always has been meant to invite all immigrants. The statue was originally [envisioned](https://www.history.com/topics/statue-of-liberty)as a sign of friendship between the U. S. and France.
1.14.2.1.1.1.1.1. Con: The addition of the poem was to symbolize that the Statue had become a symbol of welcoming, because the US had historically been a welcoming place for immigrants, and was proud of it.
1.14.2.1.1.2. Pro: Campaign chairman and former advisor Steve Bannon is known for associating with [white supremacists.](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/steve-bannon-white-supremacist_us_59ece454e4b00f08619f846b)
1.14.2.1.1.2.1. Con: I actually read the whole article and not just the headline. The article quotes many opponents of the of the Trump administration making accusations with little to no evidence. Parts of the article actually undermine the reliability of one or more of the accusers.
1.14.2.1.1.3. Pro: Attorney General Jeff Sessions was considered too racist to be a judge in [1980's](https://www.npr.org/2017/01/09/509001314/jeff-sessions-previously-denied-federal-judgeship-amid-racism-controversy) Alabama.
1.14.2.1.1.3.1. Con: Even accepting that in the '80's Jeff Sessions was blocked by concerns of racism, it is possible and even likely that a person's views and opinions will change over the course of 30 years. For example, 30 years ago, a plurality of the U.S.would have been completely against gay marriage whereas now many support that choice.
1.14.2.1.1.3.1.1. Con: There is absolutely no evidence of Jeff Sessions' moderating.
1.14.2.1.1.3.1.1.1. Con: In the summer of 2017 Jeff Sessions [told](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/11/18/that-time-the-senate-denied-jeff-sessions-a-federal-judgeship-over-accusations-of-racism/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.2784e4c9c97a) Isaac Stanley-Becker “Racism is totally unacceptable in America. Everybody needs to be treated fairly and objectively.”
1.14.2.1.1.4. Con: Blanket statement without any explicit examples. Some white-supremacist groups have some main-stream talking points; e.g.  rule of law, support of the second amendment. The pro statements made as of this edit refer to allegations and interpretation of statements as "white supremacist phrasing."
1.14.2.1.1.4.1. Con: The phrasings referred to are exactly the phrasings and quotes used by white supremacist movements, not interpretations.
1.14.2.1.1.5. Pro: Trump has used the [exact language](https://twitter.com/Mikel_Jollett/status/1017762386428608515) used by white supremacists when talking about immigration.
1.14.2.2. Con: No one should be assumed to be a health or safety concern simply because of their political beliefs or job. Such judgement should only arise if the individual is acting in an unhealthy or unsafe manner.
1.14.2.2.1. Con: Here, however, it is the combination of those "political" beliefs and the holders' jobs that creates such concerns.
1.14.2.2.2. Con: There are "political" beliefs that inherently present health or safety concerns \(e.g. Nazism, racial supremacy, extremism, etc.\)
1.14.2.2.3. Con: There are some jobs that, arguably, could be assumed to make someone a health or safety concern to someone else \(e.g. local law enforcement, ICE officers, Gestapo, executioner, soldier, drug dealer\).
1.14.3. Con: Business owners have a legal right to refuse service to unwanted customers, as long as it is not on the [basis](https://www.legalmatch.com/law-library/article/restaurants-right-to-refuse-service.html) of race, color, religion, or national origin.
1.14.3.1. Pro: The private person who runs the business has the right to exclude and therefore, has the right to determine who shall be allowed or denied access.
1.14.3.1.1. Con: A restaurant is a Public Accommodation, whether privately or publicly owned, to which the public have access by right or by invitation, expressed or implied, whether by payment of money or not. All persons shall be entitled to the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, and accommodations of any place of public accommodation. - [U.S. Code › Title 42 › Chapter 126 › Subchapter III › § 12181](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/12181) & [42 U.S. Code § 2000a](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/2000a)
1.14.3.1.2. Pro: Nightclub operators are usually allowed to decide autonomously who is allowed to enter and who is not.
1.14.3.1.2.1. Con: Unlike Restaurants, Private Clubs \(Clubs that require an entry fee, membership fee, or where members must pay dues\) are not considered Public Accommodations. [¹](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/2000a) Additionally, the type of Federal/State/Local Business & Liquor Licenses' differ for Nightclubs & Restaurants \(due to the age/sales related restrictions & guidelines established by the DoT - TTB\) [²](https://www.ttb.gov/regulation_guidance/index.shtml) which also exclude the vast majority Nightclubs from being considered Public Accommodations.
1.14.4. Pro: Businesses should adhere to their missions.  If the mission of a company is to spread honesty, then, by all means, deny service to those who are dishonest.  If the mission is to sell widgets, then sell them to whomever wants to buy.  A company doesn't need to be a moral compass for America.
1.14.5. Pro: Businesses exist solely to provide a service or sell a product, it is not their place to have political beliefs.
1.14.5.1. Con: By whose decree? According to whom? Business fills many roles within society, the most important being picking up the slack where government stops.
1.14.5.1.1. Con: It is the other way around- the government must/should provide goods and services that the market can't reliably and efficiently provide \(e.g. military\).
1.14.5.2. Pro: While business has become a "force for good" with a transformational role to play in society, it is still ultimately intended to create profit for its owner.[\(Gilbert, Houlahan, & Kassoy, 2015, n.p.\)](https://www.aspeninstitute.org/blog-posts/what-role-business-society/).  Government inaction requires action from representatives or constituents.  Mandating financially capable entities to influence norms in place of government reduces the value of financially unsound people's input.
1.14.6. Pro: Businesses should be unable to hold political views.
1.14.6.1. Con: Through their mission, vision and values, every type of organization, including service companies, develop an operation system that represents their beliefs and moral inclination. Upholding political views in any leisure and pleasure service organization is legal and contributes to its positioning and self-definition, representing or expressing this vision.
1.14.6.2. Pro: Keeps money out of politics, better allows for minority voices and ideologies.
1.14.7. Pro: In the case of Sanders, the restaurant said it had standards to uphold such as ‘honesty’. There’s no mechanism for restaurants or other businesses to be able to force standards on its customers.
1.14.7.1. Con: This literally is the mechanism.
1.14.8. Con: Private businesses should have the right to deny service to anyone for any reason.
1.14.8.1. Con: The Civil Rights Act of 1964 explicitly prohibits restaurants from refusing service to patrons on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin. [¹](https://www.archives.gov/education/lessons/civil-rights-act) Also, The right of public accommodation is also guaranteed to disabled citizens under the Americans with Disabilities Act, which prohibits discrimination by private businesses based on disability. [²](https://www.ada.gov/regs2010/titleIII_2010/titleIII_2010_regulations.htm) Lastly, the law also does not preclude a court from finding other arbitrary refusals of service to be discriminatory.
1.14.8.2. Con: This would enable the return of widespread segregation and discrimination based on race, gender, and nationality.
1.14.8.2.1. Con: It is inherently different to discriminate against people for things outside their control, such as race or orientation, than for malleable things such as political alignment.
1.14.8.2.1.1. Pro: Discriminating against people with harmful political views can incentivize them to change those views. Race and sexuality cannot be affected in this way.
1.14.8.2.1.2. Con: For many people, political alignment is caused by the environment they were raised in, which they did not choose. The idea that people freely choose political values is false.
1.14.8.3. Pro: -> See 1.14.3.1.
1.14.9. Pro: While a restaurant owner has the right to remove anyone at their discretion, openly stating the reason to be an affiliation to Trump will instantly make it a matter of agenda, which in turn can escalate to discrimination. If the patrons are not causing any harm to the business, then they should not be discriminated against, regardless of their political views.
1.14.10. Con: Being a liar, unlike race or sex, is not a protected class of citizens. The government has never sought to carve out specific protections for those known to habitually flout truth. There are many other ways liars aren't protected, for example you can fire someone just for being a liar, or even deny employment for no other reason than the person is a liar.
1.14.10.1. Con: There are only 3 States which do not recognize any of The Employment-at-will Doctrine Three Major Exceptions [¹](http://www.ncsl.org/research/labor-and-employment/at-will-employment-exceptions-by-state.aspx) Additionally Employees are protected under the Employee Polygraph Protection Act, [²](https://codes.findlaw.com/us/title-29-labor/) so to fire an employee for lying, without explicit proof and documentation, places the business at risk for a Wrongful Termination Lawsuit.
1.14.10.2. Con: If you think someone is a liar you may be wrong. Besides who among us has never lied? The same argument fits for ill informed low IQ people. Serve liars and stupid people just to avoid the possibility of being hypocritical.
1.15. Pro: This can escalate tensions and lead to violence or other extreme retaliations.
1.15.1. Con: Immigrants, the transgender community, women of reproductive age and people [who aren't Norwegian](https://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2018/01/12/577673191/trump-wishes-we-had-more-immigrants-from-norway-turns-out-we-once-did) are already feeling a lot of tension.  It's good for people who are being actively harmed by powerful organizations and individuals to find ways to communicate their grievances.
1.15.2. Pro: This will eventually lead to violence; and the left will lose the most lives because they don't believe in the 2nd amendment.
1.15.2.1. Con: [Violence is already happening](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/01/us/charlottesville-white-supremacist-rally.html), and would probably take place even if Trump administration officials weren't refused service, because they are ultimately symptoms of a larger problem.
1.15.2.2. Con: While it's true that some on the center left promote gun control, [others](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Panther_Party#/media/File:Black-Panther-Party-armed-guards-in-street-shotguns.jpg) [on](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MLPSGbfn6yk) [the](https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/gy5ex9/the-leftist-argument-against-gun-control?utm_source=vicefbus) [left](http://www.houstonpress.com/news/in-texas-even-the-socialists-are-carrying-guns-because-of-concerns-about-far-right-groups-9699594) [rather](http://www.thetruthaboutguns.com/2014/03/mike-mcdaniel/omg-liberal-gun-owners-omg/) like [their](http://www.thetruthaboutguns.com/2017/10/daniel-zimmerman/leftists-discover-the-importance-of-opposing-more-gun-control-laws/) [guns](http://www.thetruthaboutguns.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/pasted-image-0-768x501.png).
1.15.2.3. Con: Guns do not operate in a faith-based fashion.  If one does not believe in the right to legally own a gun, the gun will still function.  Therefore, the left's general support for the 2nd amendment is immaterial.
1.15.2.4. Con: There is no reason to believe it will inevitably lead to violence.  Men's organizations ban women and Women's organizations ban men.  Some artisans will only sell to members of their community.  The Amish, for example, engage in both discrimination and shunning as do most families and, frankly, even communities. This is how we enforce norms in a human culture.  It certainly *can* lead to violence, but it sure isn't a deterministic logical consequence.
1.15.2.4.1. Con: Increasingly, the move to prevent men's organizations and women's organizations from being gender exclusive is on the rise. Notably with the Boy Scouts. Being exclusive in any fashion is being torn down, ironically by many of the people who support the harassment against Sarah Huckabee Sanders.
1.15.2.5. Con: The idea that it can only end in violence is a slippery slope fallacy. There is no direct indicator that a private business refusing service to a singular individual based on their behavior and actions will come to a violent end.
1.15.2.5.1. Pro: This is a debate not about any specific business, but what liberal businesses ought do in general. If a significant portion of American businesses refused service to Trump officials, it would be far more impactful than any few businesses.
1.15.2.6. Con: The threat of violence is not a reason to avoid taking a stand or position on primarily moral grounds. In fact, many historical causes have been upheld by groups in the face of violent threats \(e.g. Civil Rights Movement\) and these stands have been overall beneficial to society.
1.15.2.7. Con: Tolerating thugs and bullies for fear of violence only ever leads to more violence from thugs and bullies, that’s why they are that way.
1.15.2.7.1. Pro: This is a theory known as the [paradox of tolerance](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_tolerance); allowing bad behaviour in the name of tolerance leads to more bad behaviour.
1.15.2.8. Con: Just because liberals tend to advocate against gun ownership doesn't mean they are not willing to defend themselves violently in case of a war.
1.15.2.9. Con: Advocating for sensible gun control so that every man and his dog can't buy assault rifles is not the same as "not believing in the 2nd Amendment."
1.15.2.10. Pro: According to [polls](https://www.statista.com/statistics/249775/percentage-of-population-in-the-us-owning-a-gun-by-party-affiliation/), Republicans are much more likely to have immediate access to firearms than Democrats.
1.16. Pro: If Trump officials are denied service, then officials from the Obama administration, or any other administration, should be denied service too, according the store owner's discretion.
1.16.1. Pro: If service can be denied based on employment, then it can also be denied due to sexual orientation, skin color etc. You can't have it both ways. Either everyone gets service, or nobody gets service. The only exceptions used to be "No shirt, no shoes, no service."
1.16.1.1. Con: In fact, the law lays out having it both ways. Businesses can reserve the right to refuse to serve anyone, except on the basis of membership in a protected class. Skin color \(race\) is a protected class, employer is not.
1.17. Con: Our actions speak to the atmosphere around us. As our freedom of speech is attacked, only acts of disobedience can voice displeasure. In reasonably fair situations, we are accepting, but the current administration is not acting reasonably fair and thus we must act.
1.17.1. Con: Freedom of speach, at least of liberals and Democrats, is not being attacked. The people who are attacking are [Antifa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antifa_\(United_States\)) and  protest group [Defend Boyle Heights](https://www.theepochtimes.com/left-wing-protesters-throw-feces-at-kosher-cafes-windows-for-owners-trump-support_2596562.html)
1.17.1.1. Con: People on the Right have long sought to shut down [liberal voices](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-right-shuts-down-free-speech-too/2016/12/15/745fa352-c30d-11e6-9578-0054287507db_story.html?utm_term=.a6b338072a20), especially in academia.
1.17.1.1.1. Con: As this supporting article states, the left suppresses speech so some people's feelings are spared. Political correctness causes many to jump through hoops to avoid offence and microaggressions. The right's primary goal, especially in academia, is for balance and accountability for speech. Academia does [lean hard to the left](https://www.nature.com/news/academia-must-resist-political-confirmation-bias-1.21057), by some estimates as much as [12 to 1](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/oct/6/liberal-professors-outnumber-conservatives-12-1/).
1.17.1.2. Con: Conservative groups have [opposed peaceful protest,](https://www.theamericanconservative.com/dreher/nfl-flag-conservative-free-speech-hypocrisy/) a hallmark of free speech.
1.17.1.3. Con: Possible other groups attacking free speech is irrelevant to the discussion.
1.18. Con: A person is in control of their own actions, and if society does not handle wrongdoing on its own, people may choose to break from society and take deliberated punitive steps. While breaking from societal guidelines carries its own risks \(e.g. jail\), it may still be necessary, worthwhile, and the ethical route.
1.19. Pro: Denial of service due to dislike of or disagreement with a person \(assuming the differences have no direct impact on ability to offer the service itself\), has the same effect as actively preventing someone from obtaining a service. They have less access to service than others and are unequal due to the in\[equal\]action.
1.20. Con: If the business wants to deny service to a defined group or individual they should define their position and post it as part of their mission statement. It should be a declared conviction, not a whim.
1.20.1. Con: Choosing not to accept a Trump official is difficult for a business because it risks counter-actions by Trump supporters. Even when the decision to reject them is made on the fly, it is likely that business owners will reflect on the risks and not act "on a whim".
1.21. Pro: Denying service based on political views is undemocratic because it punishes people for having different views, and different views are necessary for a democracy to function.
1.21.1. Con: People also need to be able to respond to those different opinions, which they can do by refusing service to those who hold those opinions.
1.21.2. Con: People are not denying officials for their political views, but their direct effect on our nation. Denying someone service based on a political outlook is different than denying someone who is actively working in the government.
1.22. Con: The Trump administation is not any other democratic or republican administation. Standards of behaviour have dropped to a level unheard of before. Protesting by refusing services to people working for this administation shows the severity of the situation America is in.
1.22.1. Pro: Denying service to Trump officials is a civil way to demonstrate that the administration falls so outside traditional American politics that they should not be entertained.
1.23. Pro: Exclusion of Trump supporters will create bad legal precedent.
1.23.1. Pro: While political beliefs are not protected on a federal level, many state governments current prohibit retaliatory action based on them. If courts uphold the legality of this action, those state level protections will be weakened.
1.23.2. Pro: Anti-discrimination laws currently protect minority groups from being discriminated against in public settings. If political identity is a legal justification for discrimination, business owners can cite that when they are actually discriminating against protected classes.
1.23.3. Con: It is not only acceptable but legal to exclude this group provided it is within private settings. Business owners are within their remit to deny service for any reason outside of certain protected traits that vary according to state law, which typically include sex, religion, race, disability but rarely political affiliation.
1.24. Con: It is not a simply addressed question because you must distinguish between publically owned versus privately owned businesses. No publically owned business should have the right to prejudice their business in any way, but privately owned businesses do have that right, as upheld by the recent Supreme Court over the gay wedding cake versus the bigoted baker! Personally I don't even want Trump supporters in my home, why would I want one in my business establishment?
1.25. Con: It is important to signal that the actions of the Trump administration are outside of the realm of acceptable civilized behaviour. This can be done by excluding them from normal civil society.
1.25.1. Con: Signalling is pointless if it does not concretely convince anyone, and it is unlikely that this sort of behaviour will convince Trump supporters or people on the fence.
1.25.1.1. Con: At this stage, it is [quite unlikely](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-41028733) that most Trump supporters will have their minds changed anyway. Action is more likely to change the views of the middle ground than inaction.
1.25.1.1.1. Pro: [60%](https://www.cnn.com/2017/08/17/politics/trump-approvers-never-stop-approving-poll/index.html) of voters who approve of Donald Trump as President say they will never disapprove of him.
1.25.1.2. Pro: The actions of any individual business will only be known through the media, which reports stories in ways that reinforce the biases of their audiences.
1.25.2. Con: Unfortunately, amidst the political and moral horrors of current American society, "excluding" them will likely create a violent counterculture.
1.25.3. Con: Freedom of the Press is listed in the Bill of Rights because of the importance of words and rational arguments in the public sphere. In opposition to this are: noise, mobs, exclusionary tactics, violence, etc. When we have disagreements, we need more discussion, less use of pressure tactics.
1.25.4. Pro: If the Trump administration is treated as just another Republican administration, its abnormalities will become normalized.
1.25.5. Con: Excluding anybody associated with the Trump organization from normal society is an extreme response to policy differences. Majority of people are independents and can show Trump that his behavior is unacceptable through elections. Both parties use of division to harm each other will only further the polarization of tribal politics, which is consuming the country. Reason, rationale, and unity would be a message that could legitimately unseat the power you disagree with.
1.25.6. Con: This argument can too easily be applied with unintended consequences. "Acceptable civilized behaviour" is in the eye of the beholder. To many, gay marriage is not an "acceptable civilized behaviour." By the above argument, some might try to claim, it is acceptable to exclude married gays from normal civil society. This is a notion I would fight against.
1.25.7. Con: The actions of the Trump administration are not outside of the realm of acceptable civilized behavior.
1.25.7.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.7.
1.25.7.2. Pro: When dealing with a person face-to-face it would be unfair to pre-judge them based on opposition rhetorical, sound bites, and possible media bias.
1.25.8. Con: There are ways to do that but refusing service based on your job is not one of them since it doesn't lead to anything constructive. While I agree it is their right to choose who to serve and who to deny service from I see it as an immature move. Like violent protests it gets the point across sure but in all the wrong ways.
1.25.9. Pro: The Trump admin has seen shocking amounts of [criminality](https://www.commondreams.org/views/2017/10/30/top-six-trump-admin-crimes-ought-bring-indictments) and ethical violations.
1.25.9.1. Pro: Donald Trump violated the norms of [releasing tax returns](https://www.usnews.com/opinion/thomas-jefferson-street/articles/2017-04-18/trumps-excuse-for-not-releasing-his-tax-returns-is-ludicrous). This means we don't know what financial conflicts of interest he has.
1.25.9.2. Pro: The Trump administration is [separating](https://www.vox.com/2018/6/11/17443198/children-immigrant-families-separated-parents) families of immigrants seeking asylum in the U.S.
1.25.9.3. Pro: [Trump has regularly praised autocrats.](https://www.npr.org/2017/05/02/526520042/6-strongmen-trumps-praised-and-the-conflicts-it-presents)
1.25.9.3.1. Pro: Trump praises autocrats while being very [harsh](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-politics/trump-uk-visit-nato-allies-comments-insults-germany-london-protest-a8444996.html) on allies like Canada, the UK, Germany, and NATO as a whole.
1.25.9.4. Pro: The Trump Administration is deporting parents without their children, effectively [stealing children](http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/ct-trump-immigration-family-reunifications-20180712-story.html) from people.
1.25.9.5. Pro: National Security Advisor John Bolton and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have [strong ties](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/dont-overlook-john-bolton-and-mike-pompeos-anti-muslim-ties/2018/04/12/6a4ce456-3dc3-11e8-a7d1-e4efec6389f0_story.html?utm_term=.c46bae120270) to anti-Islam groups.
1.25.9.6. Con: Due to the large number of people involved, all administrations have [shocking amounts of criminality and ethical violations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_federal_political_scandals_in_the_United_States#Barack_Obama_administration_\(2009%E2%80%932017\)). The difference is how much it is publicized with one party as opposed to the other party.
1.25.9.6.1. Pro: Petraeus scandal placeholder
1.25.9.6.2. Pro: ATF gunwalking scandal placeholder
1.25.9.6.3. Pro: 2013 IRS scandal placeholder
1.25.9.6.4. Pro: Hillary Clinton email controversy placeholder
1.25.9.6.5. Pro: Katherine Archuleta placeholder
1.25.9.6.6. Pro: Veterans Health Administration scandal of 2014 placeholder
1.25.9.6.7. Pro: CNN constantly harps on Republican legal and ethical allegations and either [fails to report](https://www.dailywire.com/news/23910/democrat-news-network-cnn-fails-report-these-24-ryan-saavedra) or down-plays the significance of Democrat infractions.
1.25.9.6.7.1. Con: Media coverage during the 2016 focused more on [Hillary's emails](https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/erik-wemple/wp/2017/08/25/studies-agree-media-gorged-on-hillary-clinton-email-coverage/?utm_term=.76e3bd97bc65) than on literally anything else.
1.25.9.6.7.1.1. Con: Hillary's emails were kept in the [news](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-hillary-clinton-email-story-is-out-of-control/2016/09/08/692947d0-75fc-11e6-8149-b8d05321db62_story.html?utm_term=.d4c058b5729f) by the GOP but [main stream media](https://theintercept.com/2016/10/09/exclusive-new-email-leak-reveals-clinton-campaigns-cozy-press-relationship/) outlets primarily [focused](https://www.politico.com/tipsheets/the-2016-blast/2015/09/an-insiders-account-of-hillarys-email-210069) on [disputing](https://www.cnn.com/2015/09/03/politics/hillary-clinton-email-controversy-explained-2016/index.html) [its](https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/fbi-state-department-say-no-quid-pro-quo-clinton-email-n667926) [illegality](https://www.cnn.com/2016/11/06/politics/comey-tells-congress-fbi-has-not-changed-conclusions/index.html) and Hilary's [culpability](https://www.cnn.com/2015/07/24/politics/hillary-clinton-email-justice-department/index.html).
1.25.9.6.8. Con: No administration has had this level of ethical and criminal lapses, especially from such high level officials and this early in the term.
1.25.9.6.9. Con: Despite tens of millions of dollars and more than a decade of investigating President Clinton and members of Obama's cabinet, exactly [one person](https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2017/1/11/1619079/-Comparing-Presidential-Administrations-by-Arrests-and-Convictions-A-Warning-for-Trump-Appointees) combined was convicted of a crime. This implies that the accusations thrown out failed to meet minimum burdens of proof.
1.25.9.7. Pro: The Trump Admin missed a court ordered deadline to reunite families, some of whom may be [American citizens](https://theslot.jezebel.com/trump-administration-has-missed-deadline-to-reunite-chi-1827573627).
1.25.9.8. Pro: Chief of Staff John Kelly covered up and lied about Rob Porter's history of [domestic abuse](https://www.cnn.com/2018/03/02/politics/john-kelly-rob-porter-abuse/index.html).
1.25.9.9. Pro: Former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn was an unregistered foreign agent for [Turkey](https://www.vox.com/world/2017/3/9/14868680/trump-adviser-michael-flynn-foreign-agent-turkey-lobby), who tried to orchestrate the illegal kidnapping of a Turkish cleric from US soil.
1.25.9.10. Pro: Former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to investigators about [multiple contacts](https://www.vox.com/world/2017/3/9/14868680/trump-adviser-michael-flynn-foreign-agent-turkey-lobby) with Russia.
1.25.9.11. Pro: Trump campaign chairman [Paul Manafort](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Manafort) has a decades long history of illegal and ethically heinous acts: from supporting murderous dictators to facilitating illegal weapons transfers to Pakistan.
1.25.9.12. Pro: Because Trump still hasn't divested from his properties, interest groups and foreign governments [host events](https://www.marketplace.org/2018/02/16/world/ethics-be-damned-more-half-trumps-20-person-cabinet-has-engaged-questionable-or) at Trump properties, directly funneling money to the president.
1.25.9.13. Pro: Nearly every member of Trump's cabinet has faced ethics investigations.
1.25.9.13.1. Pro: We don't know what [financial holdings](https://www.marketplace.org/2018/02/16/world/ethics-be-damned-more-half-trumps-20-person-cabinet-has-engaged-questionable-or) most members of the Trump Cabinet have, leading to questions of conflicts of interest.
1.25.9.13.2. Pro: Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke faced [ethics inquiries](https://www.desmogblog.com/2018/06/20/scott-pruitt-ethics-nightmare-so-ryan-zinke) on his spending and travel, as well as land deals he stands to personally benefit from.
1.25.9.13.3. Pro: Former HHS Secretary [Tom Price](https://www.npr.org/2018/07/13/628849448/hhs-all-but-one-of-tom-prices-plane-trips-broke-federal-rules) was forced to resign after wasting hundreds of thousands of dollars of taxpayer money on travel.
1.25.9.13.4. Pro: Secretary of HUD Ben Carson is [funneling money](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/2/3/16967628/ben-carson-ethics-hud-son-baltimore) to his family and spending exorbitant amounts on office furniture.
1.25.9.13.5. Pro: Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao has been [funneling money](http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2018/05/transportation-secretary-elaine-chao-gets-an-ethics-scandal.html) to her father's shipping company.
1.25.9.13.5.1. Con: The linked article references appearances in videos that were being claimed to be promoting her father's business. Sec. Chao asserted the videos were motivational videos to show how high persons of asian descent could rise in America.
1.25.9.13.6. Pro: Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross has faced accusations of [insider trading](https://www.cnn.com/2018/06/20/politics/commerce-secretary-denies-insider-trading/index.html).
1.25.9.13.6.1. Con: In all articles I have found \(most recent being 8 hour old\) there are partisan calls for an investigation but no investigation appears to have been stated. Sec Ross denied the claims and divested the assets to remove even the appearance of impropriety.
1.25.9.13.7. Pro: Scott Pruitt is facing fifteen investigations into his behavior, [even after resigning.](http://www.msnbc.com/rachel-maddow-show/epas-pruitt-finds-himself-facing-yet-another-federal-investigation)
1.25.9.14. Pro: Because Trump has spent more than [30% of days](https://twitter.com/StevenErlanger/status/1018204127711629317) of his presidency at Trump properties, the government has [spent hundreds of thousands of dollars](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/onpolitics/2018/05/18/bill-mandates-disclosure-government-spending-trump-properties/622999002/), at least, at properties Trump owns.
1.25.9.15. Pro: [Sarah Sanders](https://www.elle.com/culture/career-politics/a21923917/sarah-huckabee-sanders-tweet-violates-ethics-law/) and Counselor to the President [Kellyanne Conway](https://www.npr.org/2018/03/06/591184395/kellyanne-conway-violated-federal-ethics-rules-watchdog-says) have both been cited by ethics investigators for misusing their roles to attack or support private businesses.
1.25.9.16. Pro: Senior Advisor Jared Kushner attempted to set up a [secret backchannel](https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/06/06/how-to-understand-kushners-back-channel-215232) with Russia at the Russian embassy, so that Russia could have records of their conversations but the US couldn't.
1.25.10. Pro: Donald Trump has bragged about committing [sexual assault](http://www.abc.net.au/news/2017-12-04/billy-bush-says-infamous-access-hollywood-trump-tape-is-real/9224358).
1.25.10.1. Con: This was "locker room talk." He admitted to attraction to beauty and kissing without waiting for permission but nothing more. The quote "grab them by the p***y" was a sentence fragment without a "I did" or "I will" preceded and followed by "YOU can do anything." He stated "You know I'm automatically attracted to beautiful — I just start kissing them... " yet he did nothing more than shake her hand until after Billy Bush asked Zucker "How about a little hug for the Donald?"
1.25.10.1.1. Con: Bragging about committing assault is bad.
1.25.10.1.1.1. Con: This statement also implies that the act being bragged about is  or is believed to be an assault. Shaking someones hand is not typically thought of as assault, but if ones hand is grabbed and shaken without consent, it can be construed as one.
1.25.10.1.2. Con: It would be very weird for a person to brag about committing assault if they have never actually assaulted someone.
1.25.10.1.2.1. Con: [Braggadocio means not only bragging, but bragging about something that’s not true](https://www.vocabulary.com/dictionary/braggadocio). It happens all the time.
1.25.10.1.3. Con: Bragging about committing sexual assault, regardless of whether one has actually committed said assault, means the person bragging believes assaulting women is an "accomplishment," or something to be proud of.
1.25.10.1.3.1. Pro: People brag about things they believe to be accomplishments or impressive, and that they are proud of.
1.25.10.1.3.2. Con: There is nothing to show Trump believes he assaulted any women or that he would do so. There have been many accusations; mostly after he announced that he was running for president but no proof or cases brought to trial, let alone a conviction.
1.25.11. Pro: -> See 1.14.2.1.1.
1.25.12. Pro: The Trump administration has eroded and attacked important social norms, and therefore other norms of behaviour should not be extended to protect them.
1.25.12.1. Con: Norms of the past were slavery, segregation and marriage only between a man and a woman: Should the people who eroded these norms be unprotected by better social norms of the time?
1.25.12.2. Pro: The [Trump](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/leave-the-dark-twisted-fantasies-to-trump/2018/07/13/d63f3352-86c6-11e8-9e80-403a221946a7_story.html?utm_term=.89b1406bf4b4) Administration [lies](https://www.esquire.com/news-politics/politics/a22145043/sarah-sanders-john-kelly-breakfast-lie/) constantly and for [sport](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-politics/then-trump-new-york-times-fake-tips-maggie-haberman-news-lies-a7749821.html).
1.25.12.2.1. Pro: An analysis of Trump's words as president show that he has [lied more frequently](https://www.thestar.com/news/world/analysis/2018/07/14/trump-has-said-1340330-words-as-president-theyre-getting-more-dishonest-a-star-study-shows.html) as time goes on.
1.25.12.2.2. Pro: Trump has [bragged](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2018/03/14/in-fundraising-speech-trump-says-he-made-up-facts-in-meeting-with-justin-trudeau/?utm_term=.76e1c53e55c9) about lying to other world leaders.
1.25.12.2.3. Pro: Trump has falsely claimed [millions of people](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-38126438) voted illegally in the 2016 election.
1.25.12.2.3.1. Con: The number may be an exaggeration but it has been shown that a large number of [non-citizens](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0261379414000973?via%3Dihub) have voted in U. S. elections.
1.25.12.2.3.1.1. Con: Richman's study has been [discredited and widely critiqued.](https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/illegal-immigrants-2008-election/)
1.25.12.2.3.1.1.1. Con: Whereas the extrapolation has been contested, there has been no dispute that some of the noncitizen respondents did indicate that they had voted in the national election, to include their precise noncitizen status and who they voted for.
1.25.12.3. Pro: Donald Trump has personally attacked prisoners of war for [getting captured](https://www.politico.com/story/2015/07/trump-attacks-mccain-i-like-people-who-werent-captured-120317) and the families of [fallen soldiers](http://time.com/collection-post/5016312/gold-star-father-khizr-khan-talks-about-his-love-for-america-and-family/) for opposing him.
1.25.12.4. Pro: Donald Trump has attacked and undermined the idea of an independent [judiciary](https://www.brennancenter.org/analysis/his-own-words-presidents-attacks-courts).
1.25.12.5. Pro: Trump has personally spread [unfounded](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/28/us/politics/trump-conspiracy-theories-spygate.html) conspiracy theories.
1.25.12.5.1. Pro: Trump is [still pushing](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/11/29/16713664/trump-obama-birth-certificate) the discredited falsehood that Obama was not born in the US.
1.25.12.5.2. Pro: Trump [falsely accused](http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/388101-trump-report-that-obama-fbi-spied-on-campaign-could-be-bigger-than) Obama of "spying on his campaign."
1.25.12.5.3. Pro: Trump is using his unfounded [Deep State](https://www.npr.org/2018/05/17/611922875/how-trump-s-war-on-the-deep-state-is-leading-to-the-dismantling-of-government) rhetoric to push people deemed insufficiently loyal out of the government.
1.25.12.5.4. Pro: -> See 1.25.12.2.3.
1.25.12.6. Pro: -> See 1.5.13.2.1.
1.25.12.7. Pro: The Trump administration has [attacked social norms](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/trump-oppressor-press-freedom_us_5a54bc75e4b003133ecc3439) about the freedom and impartiality of the press.
1.25.12.7.1. Con: Considering the many actual dictators of countries filled with propaganda, like N. Korea and China whose leaders lead in part because there is no free press, the headline alone of the article linked here is unnecessarily biased. Perhaps the method is flawed, but it seems the Administration is simply calling the press out for its inherent partiality and partisanship, which has been so already for decades, long before the current POTUS.
1.25.12.7.2. Con: No social norms have been violated. The press is still free. No laws have been put in place curbing the press.  If they attack pointlessly, they should expect pushback.
1.25.12.7.2.1. Con: The above has not claimed legal doctrines have been violated, but social norms. Laws themselves do not fully dictate social norms. Thus, this criticism is flawed.
1.25.12.7.2.2. Con: The press has the role of questioning those in government- but it is not the government or its officials' job, nor is it mature, to relentlessly attack the press in return.
1.25.12.7.3. Pro: Trump has called the media the "[enemy of the people.](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/17/business/trump-calls-the-news-media-the-enemy-of-the-people.html)"
1.25.12.7.4. Pro: Trump has [admitted](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/5/9/17335306/trump-tweet-twitter-latest-fake-news-credentials) that he calls any story he doesn't like "fake."
1.25.12.8. Con: The correct way to respond to attacks on social norms is to uphold other norms even more strongly, rather than abandoning norms altogether.