Discussion Title: Should Every Business be Allowed to Deny Service to Anyone?

1. Every Business Should be Allowed to Deny Service to Anyone
1.1. Pro: A business, especially a small business, should have the right to deny service to anyone because they own the business.
1.1.1. Con: In certain situations, denying service can cause harm to the customer. Ownership does not imply authority to cause harm. No one would agree with the statement "A gun owner, especially a small gun owner, should have the right to shoot anyone because they own the gun."
1.1.1.1. Con: That sounds good but would have to be an unfair comparison, guns are designed to kill, no two ways about it, business isn't designed to kill, it's to provide a legally acceptable service.
1.1.2. Pro: Like a home, if you own or rent a property your tenant rights can be invoked to deign entry and removal of anyone for any reason as you see fit.
1.1.3. Con: This becomes complicated when multiple owners and staff are involved, forcing staff to refuse service based on political, cultural or racial grounds is unacceptable, even if they agree to do it.
1.1.4. Pro: [Free markets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_market#General_principles) *should* close any business which unduly discriminates.
1.2. Pro: It is the right of the business owner to deny service to their customers.
1.2.1. Con: Business investors and operators have the option of going out of business, switching to a different business sector, or operating in a different jurisdiction to avoid laws they don't like. Slaves never have any of those options. That's the big difference between antidiscrimination laws and slavery.
1.2.1.1. Con: Slavery is rejecting civil liberty, historically by rejecting citizenship status, the abolition of slavery was more about recognising slaves as citizens, therefore entitled to the same civil liberties as any other citizen.
1.2.1.2. Pro: Businesses have the option to appeal to a select market.
1.2.1.3. Con: The civil-rights movement differs from the abolition of slavery in that while abolition was classifying slaves as citizens status, civil-rights is classifying citizens as equal in status.
1.2.2. Con: A good government does not simply allow its people to be wrong. All good governments have laws against murder, and all good governments have laws against refusing service to patrons on account of their race.
1.2.2.1. Con: A good government keeps the peace, not corrects its citizens.
1.2.2.2. Con: The government's responsibility is to ensure its people can exercise their freedom, not to dictate how they should exercise it.
1.2.3. Pro: Refusing service is itself a form of free speech.
1.2.3.1. Con: The owner themselves personally refusing service maybe, forcing employees to refuse service however is dubious at best.
1.2.3.1.1. Con: An employee is not forced to do anything. They sign a mutual agreement on service when they are employed and are free to quite at any time.
1.2.4. Pro: Making someone work against their will is wrong. It violates their right to free will. They may be wrong and morally unjustified, but in a free society you must allow people to be wrong.
1.2.4.1. Pro: Forcing employees to uphold a company policy that violates civil-rights isn't viable, even if they agree to uphold it as terms of employment because it will then start a basis for hiring and firing people on the grounds of their willingness to be \(for example\) racist or homophobic.
1.2.5. Pro: It is not a law to give service to everyone.
1.2.5.1. Con: In the United States, the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 is the active law regarding discrimination by private businesses.
1.2.5.2. Con: This discussion is a prescriptive discussion, not a descriptive discussion. It's about what businesses should be able to do, not just what businesses are able to do.
1.2.5.3. Pro: Customers can exercise their right where to patronize.
1.2.5.3.1. Con: There has to be a balance between the private business owner's rights and the civil rights of individuals the business serves.
1.2.6. Pro: If the possibility of being sued or fined is off the table, naturally occurring capitalism will either support the business decision, or the business will suffer based on their refusal to serve. It's a risk the owner should be free to take
1.2.6.1. Pro: Refusal of service for any or no reason would mean there's no evidence it is race based.
1.2.6.2. Con: If the community the business operates within is predominantly racist said business would do fine, even potentially forcing people not of that race to travel to other communities for daily needs or even leave said community.
1.3. Con: Denying costs a business valuable customers and sales.
1.3.1. Con: -> See 1.2.6.
1.4. Con: Denying customers is a disservice to the community.
1.4.1. Pro: Most businesses are serving the local or national community by providing items or services. The government usually supports them with decreased taxes, fair market rules and let's not forget the whole infrastructure of a country. By denying service without a good reason, they break their side of the contract with the government, because they refused to serve the community.
1.4.1.1. Con: Business owners have no contract with the government. The business benefits the government much more than the government benefits the business owner because the business brings in revenue and therefore taxes. Other than abiding by the ADA kind of laws, a business owner can be free to make business decisions, whether they hurt his/her business, or keep his/her conscience free. It's up to him/her.
1.4.1.1.1. Con: Businesses usually have a permit from the government to operate. That permit represents a kind of contract.
1.4.2. Pro: This is especially evident in small communities there are a limited number of providers of various services. A persecuted group in such communities would feel the impact of denial of service very strongly.
1.4.2.1. Pro: Many business have monopolies over major utilities e.g. water, electricity, heating.
1.5. Pro: Denying service allows people of various religions the right to exercise their beliefs.
1.5.1. Pro: Not having the freedom to do so could discourage a religious person from owning their own company.
1.5.1.1. Con: If a religious person does not want to follow non-discrimination laws they have the option of not being in business.
1.5.1.1.1. Con: A person who believes an act to be wrong, must not be forced decide between participating in that act, or giving up their business. Then it's possible that the only business owners would be secular moral relativists.
1.6. Con: Allowing businesses to deny services to anyone may encourage an increase in minority discrimination.
1.6.1. Pro: Denying service to some category of people is discrimination, which is morally wrong.
1.6.1.1. Con: Discrimination is not always morally wrong.
1.6.1.1.1. Pro: A basketball coach has the right to discriminate against players who are short when he's looking for a center on his team.
1.6.1.1.2. Pro: Uber and Lyft have the right to discriminate when hiring against drivers under the age of 21.
1.6.1.1.3. Pro: When hiring to fill a violin vacancy, for example, an orchestra has a right to discriminate against people who aren't good at playing the violin.
1.6.1.2. Con: Discrimination is a discernment tool, and thus itself is not morally wrong.
1.6.1.3. Pro: Businesses that are subsidized by the government, or otherwise delivering a public service on behalf or in cooperation with government, should be required to conform with government anti-discrimination standards.
1.6.1.4. Con: Discrimination is a tool we use to suppress bad behavior or support good behavior and is needed to build and hold stable societies \(example: discrimination against violence by incarceration\)
1.6.1.5. Pro: Nobody would want a possibility that they could be denied service.
1.6.1.5.1. Con: If the person doesn't want to make something for someone, they know that they'll be losing out on some money but that's their business, not yours. You can't infringe on someone's business just because you get mad over them not making something you want. Go to another place where they will and they'll be glad to take your money.
1.6.1.5.1.1. Con: The Supreme Court in Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission acknowledges that there is a difference between making something for someone and selling something that you've already made. We can allow businesses to choose not to make something custom for someone while still not allowing businesses to deny service to anyone on products that they have on their menus with no modifications needed.
1.6.2. Pro: Businesses should give service to everyone, regardless of their personal beliefs.
1.6.3. Pro: -> See 1.4.2.
1.7. Con: If every business denied service to the same group, it would be difficult for these people to get their essential goods, such as groceries.
1.8. Pro: Any business transaction aught to be mutually voluntary. If government is forcing either party to the table that is violating said parties freedom.