Discussion Title: Should Australia Limit Immigration to Achieve a Sustainable Population?

1. Australia should limit immigration to achieve a sustainable population
1.1. Pro: Increasing the supply of labor drives down wages for native workers and makes it more difficult for native Australians to afford basic commodities. Conversely, increasing the number of consumers drives up prices for basic commodities, making it more difficult for native Australians to afford a high-quality lifestyle.
1.2. Con: The best solution for the human race is for the world's population to be spread evenly, according to available resources.
1.3. Pro: Impacts of rapid population growth include housing unaffordability, umemployment and deteriorating conditions for workers, escalating personal debt levels, congestion of infrastructure, increased government debt due to infrastructure bills, expensive water options, loss of fertile soil to housing developments, a bigger trade deficit, more regimented urban lifestyles, less access to green space and fresh air, more pollution, greater wealth inequality and social mobility and dilution of democracy.
1.3.1. Pro: A major contributor to air pollution in Australian cities is the motor vehicle, the number of which increases with rising populations.
1.3.1.1. Pro: Motor vehicles are responsible for [80 to 90 per cent](http://www.carbonmonoxidekills.com/are-you-at-risk/carbon-monoxide-emissions/) of carbon monoxide and lead emissions, and [50 to 80](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/00022470.1960.10467949) per cent of hydrocarbon and nitrous oxide emissions.
1.3.1.1.1. Con: The issue of dangerous emissions is probably best dealt with proper environmental regulations. This problem will occur anyway even with a smaller population.
1.3.1.1.1.1. Con: Although technological changes and regulations have kept some emissions in check, ozone and nitrogen dioxide have increased to unacceptable levels in the large cities. Legislature alone is not sufficient.
1.3.1.2. Pro: Photochemical smog sometimes goes above national health guidelines in [areas of Sydney](https://www.smh.com.au/environment/climate-change/suffocated-by-smog-and-heat-20090324-98wp.html) such as the south-west and around Melbourne.
1.3.1.3. Pro: It is because of concerns about air quality that the NSW Government has decided to limit housing development in the south-west of Sydney. However, since the pollutants flow there from elsewhere in the city, this may be a rather limited solution.
1.3.2. Pro: Water pollution resulting from flows of domestic sewage and urban run-off is also related to population levels \(although it is also a function of treatment and urban design\).
1.3.2.1. Pro: Sydney's Hawkesbury river system is already under severe stress because of urban development. Nutrient, bacteria and virus levels are high because of inflows of sewage and agricultural run-off. Yet the NSW Government is proposing to develop additional housing for thousands of families within the catchment of this river system, adding to its load.
1.3.3. Pro: Water supply is said to be another potential constraint on population growth in many parts of Australia.
1.3.3.1. Pro: For example, the population issues committee of Australia estimates that [new sources of water](http://www.sydney.org.au/5570-2/) will have to be found early next century if increases in population and use of water per person in the Sydney area continue to grow as they have been.
1.3.3.1.1. Pro: This would probably mean a dam on the Shoalhaven River, which would not only be expensive and energy intensive because of the pumping that would be required, but would also be environmentally undesirable, as would the alternative of raising the level of the Warragamba Dam.
1.3.3.2. Con: While water is in relatively short supply in Australia, its use depends not only on population levels but also on agricultural and industrial consumption and how efficiently the water is collected, distributed and used.
1.3.4. Pro: Disposing of the solid waste from large populations causes environmental pressure in cities.
1.3.4.1. Pro: Domestic solid waste generated by households accounts for one-third to one-half of all solid waste generated in large cities. This amount depends on the numbers of people and the amount of rubbish they each generate.
1.3.4.2. Pro: The population issues committee of Australia estimates that almost half of the growth in solid waste is due to population growth, and just over half is due to increased resource use per person.
1.3.4.3. Con: Increased recycling and reuse and less throw-away packaging could also affect the relationship between numbers of people and the garbage generated.
1.3.4.4. Pro: Each year, Sydney and Melbourne residents generate hundreds of thousands of tonnes of paper and cardboard, glass, plastic, and other wastes. Solid waste is generally buried in the ground, which has a number of adverse environmental consequences.
1.3.4.4.1. Pro: Resources are wasted, land is used up, smells and visual nuisances are created, and groundwater may be polluted. The waste often has to be transported long distances to be buried. If it is incinerated, the resources are still wasted and toxic air emissions are generated.
1.3.5. Pro: Population increase also puts pressure on existing housing, raising prices and forcing some people out of the city because they cannot afford to live there.
1.3.5.1. Pro: Some people respond to rising prices by moving to the outer fringes of the city, promoting [urban sprawl](https://www.conserve-energy-future.com/causes-and-effects-of-urban-sprawl.php).
1.3.5.1.1. Pro: Generally, these fringe areas are poorly served by public transport and other community facilities, so urban sprawl involves additional motor vehicle travel to work and to community facilities.
1.3.5.1.2. Pro: Urban sprawl causes prime agricultural land to be turned over to residential developments.
1.3.5.1.3. Pro: The National Population Council of Australia \(NPC\) 's population issues committee concludes that, although there is still far more to learn about the links between population levels and environmental impacts, there is some significant evidence of negative influence of urban population growth on urban ecological integrity.
1.3.5.1.3.1. Pro: Some people move out of the cities because they find them congested and unpleasant. Often, they move to the coastal regions where they find a beautiful natural environment. However, as more people move to these areas, species preservation can be threatened and the natural environment damaged.
1.3.6. Con: Problems listed here only occurs due to poor city planning and resources distribution. However, a developed country such as Australia which already has excellent city planning and resources distribution would unlikely face such problems.
1.3.6.1. Con: While this is a fair point, having a larger population will definitely increase the difficulty in executing the aforementioned planning and distribution. Australia is already facing problems especially with the housing bubble, and limiting influx of people into the country will at least provide much needed time to deal with the situation at hand.
1.4. Pro: Australia’s population is growing [very fast](https://www.businessinsider.com.au/australian-population-growth-country-comparison-2017-2018-6) for a developed country, and faster than the global population.
1.4.1. Pro: The average growth rate over the past half-century was around [1.49% per annum](https://tradingeconomics.com/australia/population-growth-annual-percent-wb-data.html), but in 2009 it exceeded 2% per annum. If it continues in this way, the population will double every 40-50 years.
1.4.2. Pro: [More than half](https://theconversation.com/how-migration-affects-housing-affordability-92502) of Australia’s population growth is due to immigration. The rest is due to ‘natural increase’ \(births minus deaths\). Around half of the natural increase is due to births to migrants.
1.4.2.1. Con: As Australia is a country that has always been 'built on immigrants', the statistic that 'half of the natural increase is due to birth to migrants' is slightly offensive and hardly means anything. Australia has large populations of Lebanese, Turkish, Vietnamese and other Australians who are citizens and can be categorised under 'migrant descent'.  We should not put the blame of population increase on people who have always been a part of society for decades.
1.4.3. Con: Focusing on population numbers alone does not give an accurate picture of the numbers of human beings a country can sustain. Experts and researchers themselves cannot put an exact figure on what 'magic number' Australia should try to keep itself to. If it were that easy, this whole issue would not even exist anyway.
1.4.4. Con: [Tens of thousands](https://www.homeaffairs.gov.au/about/corporate/information/fact-sheets/05emigration) of people emigrate from Australia each year. Australia could receive a similar number of immigrants without adding to their population.
1.4.4.1. Pro: When the number of immigrants roughly equals the number of emigrants, Australia would have ‘zero net migration’.
1.4.4.1.1. Con: While this sounds good, it would take several decades for Australia’s population to stop growing due to natural increase, and Australia would add two to three million more people \(depending on the average family size\).
1.5. Pro: Australia is a dry continent with insufficient water and fertile soil for a large population.
1.5.1. Pro: A greater population in Northern Australia \(defined as anywhere in Australia north of the Tropic of Capricorn\) would greatly assist in economic development, the delicate ecology of so many parts of Northern Australia would not support one million people. Water is the key issue.
1.5.2. Con: Trying to limit population is only delaying the inevitable. We need to design more efficient systems \(food production, housing, transport, etc\) for the future.
1.5.3. Pro: Most of Australia’s capital cities are now depending on desalination for water security in droughts, and exports of irrigated crops have been reduced.
1.5.4. Pro: Beyond 30 million people, Australia may not be food-secure in drought years.
1.5.5. Con: This argument is highly dependent on the current technology. With the help of great minds around the world, promoted by immigration into the country, such problems can be solved.
1.5.5.1. Pro: For example, California used to have water issues during drought but have found its solutions from talent coming all the way from Israel, which is half a world away. Why not promote these people into the country and let them generate specific solutions within the country itself?
1.5.5.1.1. Con: Trying to justify immigration by arguing that new innovations just might come from foreign talent is quite bizarre. Australia should pump more money into existing research faculties than relying on the outside chance that someone is going to come along and solve the nation's problems.
1.5.5.2. Con: Although this may be true, 'great minds' do not necessarily have to come from immigrants. We can always import technologies from other countries without the need to locate foreign researchers into the country.
1.5.6. Con: There are areas in Australia that are under-populated especially Northern Australia which is sparsely populated.  With the development of Northern Australia, there will be a need for at least one million more people living in that part of Australia.
1.5.6.1. Con: Not every area in a country has to be populated by humans. We must also take into account impacts on natural ecosystems, native habitats and wildlife especially in Australia which is a country rich in biodiversity.
1.5.6.1.1. Con: Populating an area with humans and caring for the environment are not mutually exclusive. You can do both.  Just like Eco-Tourism, you can do Eco-housing.
1.5.6.1.1.1. Pro: Germany has a population of 82 Million and they live fine. This is a population many times greater than Australia yet they manage well due to good planning.
1.5.6.1.1.1.1. Con: It is wrong to equate Germany with Australia. Germany's population increase was done extremely slowly, in 1992 their figure was 80 million and they have added only 2 million to that figure by 2016. Australia's population was 17 million in 1992 but by 2016, they have added another 7 million. It could well be the case that Australia does not have the infrastructure nor the monetary means to cope with this rapid increase.
1.5.6.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Germany's population grew very strongly during the 1890's when millions of Turkish people immigrated there. Such a history of rapid increase in population did not hamper their progress to become a super-power in Europe and the world.
1.5.6.1.1.2. Con: Tasmania under the Greens has had 'eco tourism' for years, Tasmania also has the highest rate of unemployment in Australia. It seems that 'eco' and sustainability do not mix.
1.5.6.1.1.3. Pro: Other places and countries in the world such as Dubai, Doha, Qatar, Israel and California have succeeded in turning semi-arid areas into large populated areas. Australia can emulate such efforts.
1.6. Con: Limiting immigration will cause a shortage of in-demand high-skilled workers.
1.6.1. Con: Infinite growth is neither inevitable nor desirable. Let the economy adapt to meet the needs of those already here.
1.6.2. Con: This is not true. Australia just recently announced revisions to the 457 visas. Under these new revisions, many high-skilled occupations like engineers and university tutors are still open to foreigners. It is only low-level jobs which have always been a loophole in the system which are being cut-down upon.
1.7. Con: The world refugee problem is at it's worst crisis since the end of World War 2 and it won't fix itself. Australia can and should help out.
1.7.1. Pro: Refugees are human beings as well. They are fleeing some sort of crisis either natural or man-made. They are victims of fate and we have a moral duty to help at least a small percentage of this pool.
1.7.2. Pro: This is not the first time Australia has successfully helped in integrating refugees into the society. During the 70's, Australia accepted large amounts of refugees from the Vietnam War.
1.7.3. Pro: Australia says they accept large amounts of refugees but what is happening is that these refugees from Syria and Iraq particularly, are put into detention centres in islands with very inhumane living conditions. The numbers don't tell the whole story.
1.7.4. Con: Most refugees currently come from Islamic countries and they will find it extremely hard to integrate into the Western culture in Australia.
1.7.4.1. Pro: Many people are afraid of the threat of Islamic terrorism especially with regards to recent attacks around the world which were caused by individuals who migrated into the country.
1.7.4.2. Con: Just because refugees come from different countries doesn't mean they cannot integrate. Given time and assistance, anyone can learn how best to live in a new society. Also, with young children refugees, they still have a lot of time to learn language and culture in schools.
1.7.4.2.1. Con: Although it might be a possibility for child refugees, that is not the reality. [They're twice as likely to drop out of school,](http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2015/07/closing-european-harbors/395321/) [their support for terrorism in Western countries is increasing](http://www.pewresearch.org/files/old-assets/pdf/muslim-americans.pdf#page=60)  and [they face more discrimination than their parents](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/16/business/international/europe-must-plan-for-immigration-juggernaut.html?_r=0) which makes integration harder for them.
1.7.4.2.2. Con: Muslims tend to believe that living best in a new Western society is under Sharia Law. See: [1](https://www.wzb.eu/sites/default/files/u6/koopmans_englisch_ed.pdf#page=2), [2](http://www.centerforsecuritypolicy.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/06/150612-CSP-Polling-Company-Nationwide-Online-Survey-of-Muslims-Topline-Poll-Data.pdf#page=2), [3](http://www.centerforsecuritypolicy.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/06/150612-CSP-Polling-Company-Nationwide-Online-Survey-of-Muslims-Topline-Poll-Data.pdf#page=2) and [4](http://www.torontosun.com/2011/11/01/strong-support-for-shariah-in-canada).
1.7.4.3. Con: This seems to ignore the fact that significant population of migrants from Lebanon and Turkey have been living in Australia for decades. These Islamic populations have always been an important part of Australia.
1.7.4.3.1. Pro: The Lebanese and Turkish people's inability to integrate were the cause for Australia to start adopting a policy of multiculturalism.
1.7.4.3.2. Pro: The Lebanese Moslem association provides needs of Sunni Australian  Muslims and advocates on their behalf in the pursuit of their aims. [Its written on their website.](http://www.lma.org.au/history)
1.7.4.3.3. Pro: The Lebanese Moslem Association received $110,000 of tax payer money for positive influence towards Muslims in Australia in both 2011 and 2012. [aph.gov.au](http://www.aph.gov.au/About_Parliament/Parliamentary_Depar  tments/Parliamentary_Library/pubs/rp/rp1415/Quick_Guides/E  xtremism)
1.7.4.3.4. Con: These people being brought to Australia have actually been considered as mistakes by Immigration Minister Peter Durron [as said here.](https://www.theguardian.com/australia-  news/2016/nov/18/australia-paying-for-immigration-  mistakes-made-by-malcolm-fraser-says-peter-dutton) Also Lebanese Christian MP Michael Sukkar agreed as said [here](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3960670/Lebanese-  Christian-MP-Michael-Sukkar-agrees-Peter-Dutton-s-  comments-Lebanese-Muslims-terrorism.html). These people are well informed on immigration issues, especially pertaining to Muslims and Lebanese.
1.7.4.3.5. Con: Australia's Lebanese population was one of the first immigrant groups that refused to speak the common language. Speaking this language is an important part of Australia as it is what they use to communicate.
1.7.4.3.6. Pro: The "Halal Snack Pack" craze which caused an online phenomenon in the country is a result of Turkish Muslim integration in Australian society.
1.7.4.3.6.1. Pro: The Halal Snack Packs increased profits for Muslims in Australia and increasing profits is an important part of Australian business. [Source](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2016/apr/19/the-  halal-snack-pack-a-fast-track-to-a-heart-attack-or-worse)
1.7.4.3.6.2. Con: It was a Facebook page that brought on this craze. As is  typical with Facebook, it can be used in deceptive ways. In this case, although under the guise of 'appreciation', there were attempts to marginalise those who wished to preserve Australian culture. The page's members banded together to oppose any posts by Australians that were not in favour of the food. It is actually an example of separation and not integration.
1.7.5. Con: Australia has to look after its own citizens first. With recent cuts in health and pension funds and ever-escalating housing prices, more and more Australians are already financially constrained. Refugees add an additional toll since tax is used to fund these refugee programmes.
1.7.6. Pro: Refugees have made up only 5-10% of Australia’s immigration in recent years. Australia has been resettling refugees at among the highest per capita rates in the world, and this could continue even with zero net migration.
1.8. Con: With a higher population, Australia can do a lot more as a nation. In sporting events, there would be more Australians taking part in international sporting scenes like the Olympics.
1.8.1. Con: Cheering on foreign-born athletes for gold medals will not boost patriotism and hardly seems a good enough reason for high immigration particularly when more important issues relating to sustainability and quality of life is at stake.
1.8.2. Pro: This can promote the importance of globalisation in order to achieve advancement in our civilisation as a whole.
1.9. Con: Australia has always been a country built on immigration. This has resulted in the rich multiculturalism the country boasts.
1.9.1. Con: Immigration often creates a two-tier society, with migrants being treated substantially differently from the average Australian citizen.
1.9.1.1. Con: This is highly questionable. Australia has a very multi-cultural diaspora. Most of the time, you hardly know who is an Australian citizen and who is a first generation migrant because being "Australian" does not equate to being white.
1.9.1.2. Pro: Most countries that do not have a  70%+ super majority ethnic group have 'ethnicised' electoral politics. [muse.jhu.edu](https://muse.jhu.edu/article/628462)
1.9.2. Con: Controlling the number of people who can enter and stay in a country will not affect the multiculturalism that has already been built. In fact, it is a country's right to protect their culture and heritage as times change. By reducing the influx of foreign persons, it becomes easier to help said persons to integrate into their new society.
1.9.3. Con: Many people who immigrate to Australia do so mainly for economic reasons and not to actually settle in the country. They work for a few years and then make plans to return to their own countries. It is hard to argue that they truly want to integrate when it is not their focus to live in Australia in the long term.
1.10. Con: Higher population results in higher workforce. This will allow more industry to grow and bloom, thus resulting in higher return for the country.
1.10.1. Con: Higher workforce means more competition, and potentially a race to the bottom when it comes to wages.
1.10.2. Pro: This will increase Australia's GDP, and help boost Australia's economy to stand on the same grounds as other economical giants such as United States of America and China.
1.10.3. Pro: Many immigrants are prepared to do a lot of the "lower-grade" jobs that most Australians refuse to do.
1.10.4. Pro: Australia's population is ageing and the country will require overseas talent to contribute to the workforce.
1.10.5. Pro: With a higher population, Australia would have a higher tax base and in turn, more tax revenue coming in for Federal Government coffers and therefore more money to be spent on vital services.
1.10.5.1. Con: While this may be true, higher tax does not equate to higher quality of life. Australia has had huge increases in immigration over the past 2 decades but per-capita income particularly of the working class has been falling.
1.11. Con: Many other places in the world accept enormous amounts of immigrants and can still do well.
1.11.1. Con: Immigration drives up GDP but lowers wage growth causing the growth stagnation we currently see in Australia
1.11.2. Pro: Ian Goldin, professor of globalisation and development at Oxford University, gives the example of the United Arab Emirates, where immigrants make up 95 per cent of the population.
1.11.2.1. Con: The United Arab Emirates is a terrible example of a 'good country'. They have serious human rights problems especially regarding treatment of foreign workers.
1.11.3. Pro: Toronto, Canada is 55 per cent immigrant. It is consistently voted as one of the happiest cities in the world to live in.
1.11.4. Pro: London, which has around 30 per cent immigrants, is a place where everyone wants to be at, and has much higher wages and lower unemployment compared to Australia.
1.12. Pro: Limiting immigration is a direct way to solve issues of overpopulation and sustainability.
1.12.1. Pro: Australia’s population growth rate is largely controlled by the federal government through immigration quotas and incentives to have babies.
1.12.2. Con: While limiting immigration is definitely a direct way to tackle said problems, it is far from the only way. A sustainable population does not necessarily mean a small population. Australia should expand it's population to boost the economy while also looking into efforts to improve wealth and resources distribution. These are what make a population sustainable, not merely the size of the population itself.