Discussion Title: Should Law Enforcement have volunteers?

1. Law Enforcement should have volunteers.
1.1. Con: Volunteers, due to lack or training, could be a danger to others or themselves.
1.1.1. Con: Volunteers can be required to undergo training either at their own expense or at the department's expense.
1.1.2. Con: Volunteers can be restricted to less risky assignments.
1.1.2.1. Pro: Volunteers, for example, could not be allowed to carry guns.
1.2. Pro: Provides work experience for the volunteer.
1.3. Pro: Lessens the 'us vs. them' mentality, creating a police force that is actually made by members of the community.
1.3.1. Con: Citizens should be trained to be in the police.
1.4. Pro: Provides the community with closer communication with the police.
1.4.1. Con: The communication could be bad and result in worsened relations between the community and police.
1.4.1.1. Con: Volunteers are unlikely to be placed in autonomous decision making roles.  They are more likely to answer simple questions and deal with minor issues that won't cause significant damage to community relations.
1.4.2. Pro: The Community can get answers to questions about police enforcement more easily.
1.4.2.1. Con: In most locations, it's already easy to arrange to speak to an officer and ask questions.
1.5. Con: Volunteers risk getting attacked by making themselves a target.
1.5.1. Con: This target could be someone else who is not as prepared as a police volunteer would be.
1.5.2. Con: Volunteers can make the choice to accept that risk.
1.5.3. Con: As mentioned, the risk of there being danger is fairly minimal as volunteers often only work in offices, with remote contact to people involved in crime if any contact at all.
1.5.3.1. Con: This presumes that the volunteer is not working outside in the public space as a law enforcement volunteer.
1.5.3.1.1. Pro: True, there's a variety of roles to volunteer in which allows someone who doesn't want to be at risk to help and support their local force.
1.6. Con: Police shouldn't need a free workforce.
1.6.1. Con: It doesn't matter whether the police should need a free workforce or not, what matters is whether volunteers could be useful to the community.
1.6.2. Pro: The money is there but is put on a lot of things that isn't useful for society.
1.6.2.1. Con: Police departments often struggle with limited budgets.
1.6.3. Con: There can be a lot more productivity added to society by the community. This is one way to use that productivity.