Discussion Title: Should Land Boundaries/Borders Exist?

1. Land boundaries/borders should not exist.
1.1. Con: Borders allow to determine legal responsibilities. If I make a wrong use of my land, I am responsible. If there are no boundaries, the land belongs to everyone, and nobody is responsible.
1.1.1. Pro: Dividing the ocean into national territories would help prevent overfishing and other forms of exploitation.
1.1.2. Con: Most groups or society that share land or other resources will share responsibility, rather than arguing it doesn't exist.
1.1.2.1. Pro: For example, in groups that practice [Transformative Justice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transformative_justice), the whole group is involved in the process, taking responsibility for working towards a positive outcome.
1.1.3. Pro: Borders are a historical construct that helped to establish laws and share the responsibility of enforcing those laws between rulers, who traded this responsibility for influence. The existence of borders nowadays is not ideal, but they are necessary to avoid anarchy, as forming a global government is not possible currently or in the near future.
1.2. Con: Boundaries help with understanding each other's image \(brand, purpose, personality...\)
1.3. Pro: Boundaries are just arbitrary lines that could be changed at any moment. Never-ending changes could be confusing for people to follow.
1.3.1. Con: Most geographical frontiers does not change often.
1.3.2. Con: In order to avoid never ending changes, we need to set boundaries to those changes.
1.4. Pro: Borders/boundaries are arbitrary lines that are not real \(except when placed in reality\) and thus not exist.
1.4.1. Con: Even when the borders do not exist physically, they still exist as concepts, in a verbal form. The existence of the word "boundary" is by itself a proof that the concept exists. In the same manner, "vampires" and "elves" do not exist in the physical world, but they exist anyway in the form of concepts.
1.4.2. Pro: Many countries act as though borders do not exist when it is in their interest to do so.
1.5. Con: Boundaries help establish security and can facilitate economic growth, competativeness, and equilibriums.
1.5.1. Pro: Boundaries allow for trust, as agreement that are made can be followed/broken and the aftermath reveals the true character of the individuals in the agreement.
1.6. Pro: Borders are an approximation of true desires \(protection \(safety, security\), growth, independence, freedom\) and thus can/should be replaced with better \(an arrangement that does not cause war\) to accommodate them.
1.6.1. Con: Eliminating borders increases freedom too. On Earth, people would be able to circumnavigate it freely without borders.
1.7. Pro: On Earth, with limited land space and a growing population, land will run out with people claiming land and protecting it with their border.
1.7.1. Con: Land will run out, with or without boundaries. It may even run out faster if we don't set boundaries to the use of lands. We should restrict the right to exploit natural pristine forests for instance.
1.7.2. Con: If we leave Earth, then this will not be as much of an issue.
1.8. Pro: People get hurt when borders are crossed, especially when the boundary is unknown and a person crosses a line that is not shown in reality but exists in someone's mind.
1.9. Con: Boundaries protect, which is why they exist.
1.9.1. Pro: Without boundaries, people can access everywhere. Then anybody can access places where they are not wanted, including places where they can harm other people.
1.9.2. Pro: Boundaries protect entities on the outside from getting harmed/injured.
1.9.2.1. Con: If something dangerous is not built, there is no need to set up boundaries around it to prevent danger from occurring.
1.10. Con: Boundaries prevent change from occurring within them, so people have a foundation to work from.
1.10.1. Pro: Without boundaries, anyone could mess up something that someone is trying to build, which leads to nothing getting done.
1.10.2. Con: There is no need to have a boundaries for a foundation, as once something gets made, not everyone could enjoy it with boundaries/borders set up to protect it.
1.10.3. Con: Some concepts are better not to get built and so a foundation would not be necessary to create.
1.10.3.1. Pro: For instance, if people work on something that goes awry \(such as a dictatorship\), then people have less power to demolish/prevent it with boundaries.
1.10.4. Pro: Without defined land boundaries, commerce in land and buildings upon them is insecure. This is the reason why advanced economic states have land registries, to safeguard the rights and responsibilities of land ownership.