Discussion Title: Should Ontario have only one public, secular school system?

1. Ontario should have only one public, secular school system.
1.1. Pro: Secular schools are no less equipped to deal with Catholic students than with students of any other religion, for example the nearly 1/3rd of Ontarians who are protestant.
1.2. Pro: A single public school system will help keep small rural schools open by consolidating rural school populations allowing them to maintain the minimum sustainable school enrolment.
1.3. Pro: The children are protected from the doctrines and peer-pressure religious schools bring with them.
1.3.1. Con: Peer pressure is found everywhere, although it is true that there is no religious element.
1.4. Pro: Consolidating the Catholic and public school systems would make official a de facto single public school system which is already emerging anyway. The current Catholic schools are less and less religious in practice. They now [admit increasing numbers of non-Catholic students](https://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/national/education/in-fight-for-funding-ontarios-catholic-school-boards-enrolling-morenon-catholics/article37954552/), and they "[have to allow gay-straight alliance clubs, teach the province’s sex-education curriculum, and not pressure students into participating in Catholic activities](https://ottawacitizen.com/news/local-news/reevely-catholic-schools-cant-push-catholicism-on-students-now)". Their 'Catholicism' has become a mere formality.
1.5. Pro: Having only one system will generate increased economic efficiencies. It would, for instance, eliminate the administrative duplication inherent in the existing systems, thereby freeing up public funds.
1.5.1. Con: The educational system of a state is only good, if it meets the educational needs of citizenry. The citizenry is comprised of many different groups and individuals. The diverse needs cannot be adequately met by one secular public system. Increased efficiencies can be had by eliminating large bureaucratic boards of education and by permitting a multiplicity of small, agile, and lean systems to develop organically in Ontario.
1.5.2. Pro: These funds can be used to better support other educational avenues, enriching the lives of students.
1.5.3. Con: “Efficiencies” are not the most compelling argument for a single school system because there aren’t actually that many to be had. The combined system will have the same number of students, the same number classrooms, the same number of schools , so you will need the same number of superintendents, the same number of support staff, etc. You might save on an admin assistant here and there, and one director of education, but that’s it. Relatively small savings probably offset by transition costs.
1.5.3.1. Con: There would be pretty decent savings in the areas of buildings maintenance, administrative functions, better volume discounts, smaller ratio of superintendents and head office staff per student because one would be essentially only running one schoolboard and need not have parallel policies, procedures, initiatives, policies. One full school bus per neighborhood instead of 3 half empty ones. Transition costs would be a one time expense.
1.5.4. Pro: Having one public, secular system will allow for the two school boards to merge their funds. Funds can then be used to create a higher class school system with advanced technology and more useful tools for a better school environment.
1.6. Pro: Yes, I support the idea of having one school board because my experience with both catholic french and public french board lead me to believe that there is no equality in the funds which lead to an unequal privileges to the students. On the other hand giving parents a choice to choose bilingual education for their little ones must be a right. To sum it up, we need a one board where everyone is equal and may enjoy the same rights and privileges is the goal.
1.7. Pro: Having only one public school system is the right way to address the apparent inequity of funding one religious school system to the exclusion of all others \(i.e., the Catholic system\).
1.7.1. Con: Having one public school system is not the best way to address this apparent inequity. One could, for example, simply find a way to fund other religious educational systems, such as with a school voucher system. This would permit the various religious and secular groups to set their own ends and establish their own sub-culture within the limits of the law.
1.8. Pro: One secular school system is the right way for a multi-cultural society to address the educational needs of its citizens.
1.8.1. Pro: A secular school system would teach tolerance values.
1.8.2. Con: Since education necessarily involves the inculcation - indeed this task is set out for the teacher in the Education Act of Ontario - one public, secular school system cannot rightfully address the needs of a multi-cultural Canada.
1.9. Con: Having only one public school system involves the \(unrightful\) imposition of state ends.
1.9.1. Pro: Through the Education Act of Ontario and through Provincial curriculum documents, the state effectively sets ends for teachers; e.g., it establishes the values that are to be imparted and the content that is to be learned. But these are matters that should be left to the individual groups, as long as they remain within the law, and some of the Catholic ends \(e.g., values\) are unique to them. So, those freedoms should be protected under the law.
1.9.1.1. Con: Protecting those freedoms is not the same as publically funding the exercise of said freedoms.
1.9.2. Con: All publicly funded school systems involve the “imposition” of state values through the provincial curriculum, which both systems must follow. If anything, merging the two systems would remove the imposition of Catholic norms and values from tax-funded schools.