Discussion Title: Should Empathy Be Taught In School?

1. Empathy should be taught in school.
1.1. Con: Empathy impedes survival decision making. Nature expects us to balance out all our emotions for us to survive. Disproportionate focus on teaching one emotion/trait stunts overall development.
1.1.1. Con: Empathy enhances survival of the species, clan, family therefore the individual or his/her offspring.
1.2. Con: If schools focus on critical thinking skills, empathetic reasoning will follow. If they're taught not just the "what's" but also the "why's", a rise in empathy should be fairly organic.
1.3. Pro: Instigating empathy in schools can build skills like perspective taking and active listening among students.
1.3.1. Pro: Group work at schools would become more collaborative and all students in a group would feel more encouraged to participate in group projects.
1.3.2. Con: The subject of empathy might be taken less seriously by students if they start thinking that the teaching of it in school is "lame".
1.4. Con: Because teaching empathy in school is perceived, by parents and students, as ideological indoctrination, the backlash can be counterproductive.
1.4.1. Con: Many parents would likely see the value of this and many others would change their minds once they see how empathy is taught.
1.5. Pro: Empathy is already being taught in schools but not explicitly as a core value. 'Don't interrupt', 'wait your turn', 'share the ___ \(name the resource\)', are all examples of teaching empathy. It's not something that's measured beyond 'plays well with others' but it is taught.
1.6. Pro: Students would be able to put themselves in shoes of others before jumping to conclusions by themselves.
1.6.1. Con: Students may become less willing to take necessary confrontations.
1.6.1.1. Pro: A student may choose not to stand up to a bully out of empathy for the person doing the bullying.
1.6.1.1.1. Con: A student would be more likely to empathise with the person being bullied in this case and may therefore be more likely to stand up to the bully.
1.6.2. Pro: This means that students would be less likely to pick on kids who look or act differently from the norm.
1.6.3. Con: A person can only put themselves in shoes of others, only when they have experienced something similar themselves.
1.7. Pro: Empathy enhances social interaction, which is an integral part of adult life.
1.7.1. Pro: Empathetic people are more likely to find ways to get along with others, and are more likely to be well-received by other people.
1.7.2. Pro: Empathy makes it easier to collaborate with others.
1.8. Pro: Lack of empathy from early stages is the main reason behind "intolerance" which is the root cause of today's largest problems of discrimination such as racism, sexism and other inequalities.
1.9. Pro: Being empathetic is one of the key components to authentic leadership in 21st century.
1.9.1. Pro: People can better relate to an empathetic leader.
1.9.1.1. Pro: People are more likely to take the words and actions of a leader to heart if they feel like they can relate to the leader.
1.10. Pro: If you want to stand out in the job market, along with hard skills, employers also value the empathetic nature of employees.
1.10.1. Con: If everyone learns to be empathetic, no one will stand out in the job market.
1.10.2. Pro: Being empathetic person would allow a prospective employee to better connect with their interviewer during job interviews.
1.10.3. Pro: An empathetic employee is more likely to establish good working relations with their fellow co-workers.
1.11. Con: Empathy can't be taught, some people are born more empathetic than others.
1.11.1. Con: Empathy can be taught and embedded within all subjects or project-based learning. It is based on discussion, building listening skills and looking at issues from multiple perspectives. One organization that works in that effort is [www.tolerance.org](https://www.tolerance.org). Empathy is the foundation for peace.
1.12. Con: Empathy can't be learned with one experience or incident, it takes several years for a person to start empathising with others.
1.13. Con: Empathy cannot be measured and hence, it is difficult to say if teaching empathy in school would have a significant impact upon the life of students.
1.13.1. Con: So many of the soft skills can not be measured, yet that does not diminish their importance.