Discussion Title: Should cars have set electronic speed limits?

1. Cars should have electronic speed limits.
1.1. Con: This would disable the ability of someone who needs to break the speed limit in an emergency situation.
1.2. Pro: There is no situation in which a higher speed would be legally permissible anyway.
1.3. Con: Drivers could still drive at a speed excessive for the weather/road conditions but within the legal speed limit for that road.
1.3.1. Con: This is irrelevant and provides no con for the statement made. Unless the suggestion is it would give drivers a false sense of security to drive as fast as possible within the limit. If so that is a separate argument.
1.4. Pro: Car crashes are a leading source of death. Electronic speed limits would help mitigate this.
1.5. Con: Some countries do not have speed limits on all roads.
1.5.1. Con: Even if there are no official speed limits, it will be safer to force cars to stick to a speed limit.
1.5.2. Pro: This would not work with foreign travel or differing speed limits across borders. A vehicle entering another country could find itself unable to drive to the correct speeds for the roads.
1.5.3. Pro: Some German highways have no speed limit.
1.6. Con: Drivers would still be able to break speed limits, for example in inner cities, as long as they remain under the highest speed limit in the country, which usually applies to highways.
1.6.1. Con: Electronic speed limits could access a GPS network, so that it always knows the speed limit on your street.
1.6.2. Con: Actual speed could be memorized in the car and regularly and automatically controlled by authorities.
1.7. Con: Electronic speed limits are easy to disable or bypass.
1.7.1. Pro: There is potential for a "black market" of vehicle modifications to remove the speed limits.
1.7.2. Con: Many things are easy to disable or bypass yet illegal and due to these potential legal repercussions effective.
1.8. Pro: Drivers would appreciate this as it would help them to drive within the limitations imposed by the law.
1.8.1. Con: People who speed often do so because they do not wish to adhere to the law.
1.8.2. Pro: It would allow them to focus more on the road for driving safely, and less on controlling their speed.