Discussion Title: Should the US forgive student loan debt for all?

1. Student loan debt in the US should be forgiven for all.
1.1. Con: It seems unfair to those who have played by the rules and pay their debts to see others get debt forgiveness.
1.1.1. Con: Those that have already paid their debts are likely to pertain to higher economic classes, meaning they could afford to do so. The injustice is therefore lessened.
1.2. Pro: Forgiving student loan debt will encourage more people to attend university, thereby generating a more well-trained population.
1.2.1. Con: If we wind up with more graduates, the resulting population may not fit our job market as not every job requires a college degree.   Having people with bachelor's degrees flip burgers helps no one.
1.3. Pro: Forgiving student loan debt would boost the country's economy.
1.3.1. Pro: Student Loan forgiveness will help people be able to start up businesses, free up credit, and create new jobs.
1.3.1.1. Con: It may encourage/allow some spending, but it's unclear that it would create new jobs, especially since forgiving trillions in loans would almost certainly necessitate higher taxes which would have negative economic effects.
1.3.2. Con: The loan amnesty has [opportunity cost](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opportunity_cost); there's more efficient ways to use the money for the economy.
1.3.3. Con: The losses incurred by the banks issuing the loans would have negative repercussions for the banks' ability to lend in the future.
1.3.4. Pro: Additional capital saved up by students could be pumped back into the economy through expenditures, rather than repayments.
1.3.4.1. Pro: The speediest way to revive our economy is enact a policy to help consumers in a very real way. When working people have more money, they spend it.
1.3.4.1.1. Con: This would only help a small percentage of the population.    Impact would, thus, be limited.
1.3.4.1.2. Con: Positive impacts would be offset by the higher taxes required to pay for the debts.
1.4. Pro: Forgiving student loan debt would make for a more egalitarian society.
1.4.1. Pro: At present, the poor are more likely to be burdened by the cost of their student loan, a burden that they will carry for life.
1.4.1.1. Con: Actually, people who make poor educational decisions are more likely to be burdened by the cost of their student loan. That is, people who opt for degrees with limited employability at expensive schools are far more likely to carry heavy debt. On the other hand, people who choose degrees that can readily lead to well-paying post-graduation jobs are far less likely to be overburdened by their debt.
1.4.2. Con: Those who are more educated are likely to earn more money, so removing their need to pay back for their education would make those more likely to become rich better off.
1.5. Pro: Student loans are an example of [predatory lending](http://www.financialaidfinder.com/the-dark-side-of-student-loans/) and the victims of such should not be compelled to continue to pay for their victimization.
1.5.1. Con: Student loan rates compare quite favorably to the loans most common to most americans and can hardly be called predatory.
1.5.1.1. Pro: Average student loan interest rates are between 3.7-5%, depending on the type of loan and you typically have 10-15 years to pay.   Meanwhile the average mortgage loan is 4.75% for 15-30 years, car loan 4.2% for 3-6 years, and credit card 12.2% for any duration.
1.5.2. Con: Students knew the terms of their loans when they agreed to them.
1.6. Con: It would be unfair to those that have chosen less prestigious universities in order to avoid large debt.
1.6.1. Pro: People at less prestigious universities are likely to earn less than those who attended the country's best universities.
1.7. Pro: All education should be free, and if we can afford to award the rich bankruptcy up to four or six times, then we can afford to forgive a students debt.
1.7.1. Con: Free education would come at the cost of world-leading educational quality at the top universities.
1.8. Con: Forgiving student debt will raise Americans' taxes.
1.8.1. Pro: Given it is only those who attended university who benefit economically from their education, it is unfair to spread that cost across the whole of society.
1.8.1.1. Con: A more educated workforce has society-wide benefits.
1.9. Con: Forgiving student debt is not fair to those who do not go on to higher education.
1.9.1. Pro: College education [is linked](https://www.collegeboard.org/releases/2016/college-education-linked-to-hgher-pay-job-security-healthier-behaviors-and-more-civic-involvement) to higher pay and job security later in life. It is therefore only fair that those who benefited from this college education pay in order to receive these privileges.
1.10. Con: People should have personal responsibility by repaying their student loans.
1.10.1. Pro: Given it was an individual choice to go to university, it should be the individual who pays for their choice.