Discussion Title: Should Ex-Convicts Be Prioritised In The Job Market?

1. Ex-convicts should be prioritised in the job market
1.1. Pro: Ex-convicts are at a disadvantage vis-a-vis regular citizens even though they should be fully equal.
1.1.1. Con: In the majority of cases, this disadvantage is self-inflicted. Other citizens should not hence be at a disadvantage due to previous mistakes made by the ex-convict.
1.1.2. Pro: After being released from prison, prisoners are usually seen as having paid their debt to society, hence they should no longer be punished by being at a disadvantage in the job market.
1.1.3. Con: This assumes that prison completely wipes somebody's slate clean, which it does not: a criminal record remains on record for a reason. As such, they are not fully equal, and certainly shouldn't be prioritised.
1.2. Con: It is not the responsibility of private employers to engage in social charity work.
1.2.1. Pro: Private employers need to compete in the free market for sales and customers.
1.2.2. Pro: Private companies owe responsibility to their share holders.
1.2.3. Con: Private organisations do still have a degree of [social responsibility](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_responsibility), however, and this could easily manifest in a scheme such as this.
1.3. Pro: Giving ex-convicts stable jobs [reduces](http://www.genfkd.org/denying-employment-ex-offenders-increases-recidivism-rates) the likelihood of them re-offending.
1.3.1. Con: Removing job opportunities for those newly entering the workforce may cause more initial offenders, thus having a net neutral impact on overall criminality.
1.3.2. Pro: This reduces overall crime rates which is safer and better for society as a whole.
1.4. Con: It would be unfair to ruin the chances of financial stability for those who have never committed an offence.
1.4.1. Pro: The job market is difficult enough without prioritising certain individuals.
1.4.1.1. Pro: A lot of jobs in the job market are saturated and don't have enough openings.
1.4.1.1.1. Pro: Developed countries are outsourcing a lot of their work overseas due to decreased labour costs. As a result, the number of jobs available state-side in developed countries has reduced dramatically in certain industries.
1.4.1.2. Pro: The modern job market has very little job security.
1.4.1.3. Pro: Due to rising living costs, especially in major cities, it is becoming more and more difficult to find a job that meets a person's financial needs.
1.5. Pro: It allows ex-convicts to be more easily integrated back into society.
1.5.1. Pro: This allows them to be able to create social connections with non-criminals and have more personal fulfilment.
1.5.2. Pro: This provides ex-convicts with economic opportunities which might prevent them from committing crimes for financial reasons.
1.5.2.1. Con: Jobs granted as a result of this system are unlikely to be incredibly high paying. As a result, its also unlikely that just these jobs will be sufficient to satisfy a person's greed. The incentive to commit crime will likely exist either way.
1.5.3. Con: If they have been prioritised, or even generally treated differently from the general public, that will put them at a degree of separation rather than assist integration.
1.6. Con: Businesses may not want ex-convicts to make up a percentage of their workforce.
1.6.1. Pro: Having ex-convicts make up a large percentage of their workforce could hamper the bottom lines of businesses.
1.6.1.1. Pro: The number of customers might drop because people may feel uncomfortable interacting with ex-criminals.
1.6.1.2. Pro: External investment into the company may drop because ex-convicts may be seen as unreliable or less qualified than other workers.
1.6.1.3. Pro: Hiring ex-convicts at the expense of more qualified workers could directly effect the bottom lines of companies as there may be workers who are more capable or efficient who would be neglected as a result of this system.
1.6.2. Con: This is discrimination on the part of businesses; rehabilitated convicts are not a danger for any business.
1.7. Con: With these systems in place, customers and civilians may not trust certain businesses due to number of ex-convicts on staff.
1.7.1. Con: Once this is a common practice customers will have an improved image of ex convict's employment.
1.7.2. Con: It is impossible to know for the customer whether business A employs ex convicts and B doesn't.
1.7.2.1. Con: Arrests and convictions are often public record.
1.7.3. Pro: This may reduce income for businesses who take part in these schemes, resulting in businesses not taking in ex-convicts and resulting in a failed system.
1.8. Con: This potentially could incentivise some of the unemployed population to commit small crimes to secure a job in the future.
1.8.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.1.