Discussion Title: Should Youth Votes Count More Than Votes Cast by Elderly Citizens?

1. Youth votes should count more than votes cast by elderly citizens
1.1. Con: Unjustly deprives the elderly of their electoral influence.
1.1.1. Pro: The elderly have more life experience that creates a more meaningful vote.
1.1.1.1. Pro: The elderly have undergone more political events and understand more about the world.
1.1.2. Pro: They have not contributed anything to the nation, where as the elderly have already contributed everything to it.
1.2. Pro: Youth are the producers of society, so they bear the brunt of economic policy more than the elderly.
1.2.1. Pro: More youth are active in the workforce than their elderly counterparts, so labor and economics policies effect them more.
1.2.1.1. Pro: Youth also are more financially unstable, so economic changes have more direct risk to their financial well-being as well as future financial well-being and stability.
1.2.2. Con: The two statements do not follow. If the youth are “producers” and the old “receivers” what is the mechanism by which, or evidence that, the young “bear the brunt of economic policy” more than the old?
1.3. Pro: Youth have a higher stake in the future of their country than their elderly counterparts.
1.3.1. Pro: They will be alive longer, so they will have to deal with the consequences of political action and policies for longer.
1.3.1.1. Pro: History and statistics show that younger generations are far outliving their predecessors.
1.3.2. Con: With an ageing population, this is untrue: the elderly may still have decades left to them.
1.3.3. Con: The old contributed much more to the creation of the country than did the young.
1.4. Pro: Youth are more dependent on the state.
1.4.1. Pro: Although elderly do have state-sponsored care \(eg Medicare\), they have also had more of a chance to be independent from the state through economic self-support.
1.4.1.1. Pro: Education reforms, cuts and expansions more directly affect youth and their prospects in the future.
1.5. Pro: It would incentivize youth political engagement.
1.5.1. Pro: Reduces youth disillusionment and apathy by allowing youth voters to feel their voice is finally heard.
1.5.1.1. Pro: An amplified voice motivates youth to affect the policies that affect them, even if the only effect is to energize and empower those already politically-active.
1.6. Pro: Policies will trend towards long-term benefits and actions rather than status quo short-term solutions.
1.6.1. Pro: With a perspective imparted by a longer life span and less to "lose" in present assets, youth are better positioned to imagine the long-term impact of policy changes.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Other long-term policies favored by youth currently are universal health care, universal basic income, college tuition reform, many of which benefit the elderly and other demographics.
1.7. Con: Infringes on the right of equal representation of the elderly.
1.7.1. Pro: The principle of one person, one vote is a founding principle of democracy.
1.7.1.1. Pro: The US has historically fought against unjust deprivations of equal representation, such as the Civil RIghts Movement and the Suffrage Movement.
1.7.1.2. Con: Yet, those under a certain age are restricted from voting; this seems unfair.
1.7.1.2.1. Con: Children do not have the experience or the mental development to make rational or wise decisions: [cognitive development](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cognitive_development).
1.7.2. Pro: We would be creating a society where no one would want to be elderly as they would lose power as they age.
1.8. Con: Young people can not be trusted with more representation.
1.8.1. Pro: Youth are notoriously uninformed and thus less valuable to the democratic process.
1.8.1.1. Pro: Youth tend to get their news from unreliable sources such as social media.
1.8.2. Pro: Young people derive much of their opinions through [social media](http://www.pewinternet.org/2018/05/31/teens-social-media-technology-2018/), where their opinions can be easily [manipulated](https://www.independent.co.uk/student/istudents/filters-and-photo-manipulation-on-social-media-sites-are-creating-a-generation-of-deluded-a6852736.html).
1.9. Con: The policy is vulnerable to electoral manipulation
1.9.1. Pro: Policy makers may purposely manipulate environmental practices to artificially shift demographic numbers.
1.9.1.1. Pro: The state should be responsible for electoral equality of votes.
1.9.2. Pro: Policy makers can manipulate the definitions of what means 'elderly' and 'youth'.
1.10. Con: The disproportionate electoral power of youth could be used at the expense of elderly populations.
1.10.1. Pro: Politicians need to garner a majority of electoral constituencies to win elections, and will pay more attention to the youths for votes.
1.10.1.1. Pro: This power could be used at the expense of elderly populations.
1.10.2. Pro: The younger generations may not have as nuanced an understanding or experience of the issues facing society.