Discussion Title: Should private education be banned?

1. Private education is wrong and should be ended.
1.1. Pro: The original intention of private schools is no longer relevant now that we have universal education.
1.1.1. Con: We have not yet achieved universal access to education. [72 million](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_access_to_education) or more children of primary education age do not go to school.
1.1.2. Con: The original intention of private schools have changed and are now modernized for the most part.
1.1.3. Con: This would also put an end to Vocational schools as they are private schools dedicated to a certain way of teaching as they do not follow universal education guidelines, but achieve the same criteria.
1.1.4. Pro: Private schools were acceptable when they were first introduced as they offered education independently from the church. Their continued acceptable depends on this history even though it is no longer true.
1.2. Pro: Some private schools do not have to follow the national curriculum.
1.2.1. Con: This could be addressed by setting requirements for private schools rather than banning them entirely.
1.2.2. Con: In some places, this is not the case. In Ontario, Canada   [Private Schools must meet the same basic requirements as public school.](http://www.edu.gov.on.ca/eng/general/elemsec/privsch/)
1.2.3. Con: [Public schools](https://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/national/half-of-grade-6-students-fail-to-meet-ontario-math-standards/article36124763/) don't hit the national curriculum ether, risking children having an incomplete or even extremely \(lacking\) education.
1.2.4. Pro: This could risk children having an incomplete education.
1.2.4.1. Con: A national curriculum does not necessarily define a complete education.
1.2.4.1.1. Con: In the absence of any other objective body, the state's definition of a complete education is the best we have.
1.2.4.2. Con: Children are at risk of an incomplete education in public schools as well.
1.2.5. Pro: This could risk the teaching of extremist material
1.2.5.1. Con: The definition of “extremist” is vague and can be used to silence minorities.
1.3. Pro: Private schools undermine meritocratic societies.
1.3.1. Con: If parents have merited the money that they have earned, as a result they should be able to use that to help their children advance, not just themselves.
1.3.1.1. Con: The child has not merited the money. A meritocratic system is based on each individual advancing themselves \(not their family members\) on the basis of merit.
1.3.1.1.1. Con: In a free society you are free to use what you have merited as you please. For example, you can feed your dog the nicest foods, give your parents the nicest birthday cards. If not then there is no merit anyone would desire to earn. A lot parents are earning what they earn for their children specifically.
1.3.1.2. Con: Parents advantaging children is a form of class advantage, which is the antithesis to meritocracy.
1.3.2. Pro: The government has a responsibility to ensure equal access to education for all so that a meritocratic society can be maintained.
1.3.2.1. Con: Schooling is not an economic "[public good](https://www.cato.org/publications/policy-analysis/public-schooling-public-good-analysis-schooling-externalities)," so it can be provided privately.
1.3.2.1.1. Con: A subjective definition of 'public good' written by an economist, not an educator, is not necessarily reliable. There are a range of sources that discuss the ways in which education is beneficial to society: [Source 1](https://www.globalpartnership.org/education/the-benefits-of-education), Source 2, [Source](http://chrome-extension://oemmndcbldboiebfnladdacbdfmadadm/https://docs.education.gov.au/system/files/doc/other/dae-det_benefits_of_higher_education_final_report.pdf) 3. If it is beneficial to society, it can be defined as a public good using [this definition](https://www.google.com.au/search?q=what+is+a+public+good&oq=what+is+a+public+good&aqs=chrome..69i57j69i60l4j69i59.1701j0j4&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8).
1.3.2.2. Pro: Education should not be based on fees if the goal is to build a homogeneous society where everyone has the same educative opportunities.
1.3.2.3. Con: "Access" is not the same as "forcing someone to go to this specific type of school".
1.3.2.4. Con: In some systems, the government cannot fund public schools. Allowing that, would provide a way to ensure equal education without banning private schools.
1.3.3. Pro: Private schools put children at state schools at a disadvantage.
1.3.3.1. Pro: Private schools take better-performing pupils from state classrooms, reducing the positive effect they have on overall class performance.
1.3.3.1.1. Con: It would be immoral to restrict a benefit for some children solely for the benefit of other children.
1.3.3.1.1.1. Con: This depends on your philosophical views.
1.3.3.1.2. Con: Education is fundamentally how much an individual learns.  The best students being taken and put in courses that challenge them is better for them as students. While the lower results will reflect the fact that those students need more help to accomplish the same task.
1.3.3.1.2.1. Con: Taken to a further degree, this would mean no cross-pollination of success between children \(in theory every child could be taught separately\). Group education is partly about the benefits of this group effect - not only how much an individual child benefits.
1.3.3.2. Con: Children at private schools free-up valuable places for other children at state schools.
1.3.3.2.1. Con: State schools are required to educate all children regardless of how many there are in the area. Therefore, private school do not 'free up' places.
1.3.3.3. Pro: Private schools are able to poach the best teachers and headteachers from the state system, which cannot compete on remuneration.
1.3.3.3.1. Con: More labor market competition means [teachers](https://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/school-choice-benefits-teachers-too) are better off. Government employers hold monopsony power in the teacher labor market.
1.3.3.4. Con: Since private schools operate in competition with each other, they have an incentive to boost the quality of education as much as possible. Such competition is good for state-schools as well, since innovative learning methodologies can be tested privately and later implemented in the public sector as well.
1.3.3.5. Con: Just because a school is private, that does not necessarily guarantee a higher quality of education.
1.3.4. Con: Banning private schools undermines meritocratic societies since parents are less incentivised to work harder and provide better education for their children.
1.3.5. Pro: There is no phase in life where equality of opportunity is more important than in childhood.
1.3.5.1. Pro: People are more open to opportunities and experiences when they are younger so can take greater advantage of them.
1.3.5.2. Pro: If all children have equal access to schooling, this ensures that all are most likely to reach their potential.
1.3.5.3. Pro: Providing children with equal access to education ensures the most capable are given the opportunity to experience the greatest growth, regardless of their parent's wealth, which ultimately benefits society because we want the most capable people's potential realised.
1.4. Pro: An education system with little or no private education provides better overall results.
1.4.1. Pro: Finland is [consistently ranked as the nation with the best education system in the world](http://uk.businessinsider.com/wef-ranking-of-best-school-systems-in-the-world-2016-2016-11///?r=AU&IR=T#1-finland-67-11) and they have almost [no private schools.](https://www.theatlantic.com/national/archive/2011/12/what-americans-keep-ignoring-about-finlands-school-success/250564/)
1.4.1.1. Con: The causation is likely inverted: Finland has one of the best national systems in the world, therefore there is a decreased demand for private education. Eliminating private education does not increase the quality of public education.
1.4.2. Pro: The failings of public schools are often a result of private schools making use of selective enrolment processes and targeted exclusions. This leads to the overall results of private schools being higher and gives the appearance that private schools provide a higher quality education. In reality, private schools simply import talent and export failure.
1.4.2.1. Pro: Public schools are generally required to take all students regardless of ability.
1.4.2.2. Pro: The link between socio economic advantage and success at schooling is [well established](https://www.jstor.org/stable/pdf/canajeducrevucan.32.3.558.pdf?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents). Socio economically advantaged students are more likely to attend private schools.
1.4.2.3. Pro: Capable students will generally succeed regardless of the school they attend.
1.4.3. Pro: The focus on profit impacts the quality of the provided product.
1.4.3.1. Con: A focus on profit would encourage a school to perform to higher standards to remain competitive. Public schools do not always have such a need.
1.4.4. Con: In countries where private schools routinely outperform state schools private schools provide an incentive for state schools to provide a higher quality of education.
1.4.4.1. Con: There is no financial incentive for state schools to compete with private schools because state schools do not charge fees.
1.4.5. Con: Private schooling allows money spent by parents with means, on furthering their children's education, to take some of the burden away from the state sector.
1.4.5.1. Con: If wealthy families were taxed properly, there would be adequate public funding for education.
1.4.5.2. Pro: It means that those who are unable to afford to pay for education have the possibility to attend a state-funded school, especially in developing countries where state schools are particularly limited.
1.4.5.3. Con: Educating children of parents with means is not a burden on the state sector. When those parents donate or otherwise participate the school benefits.
1.4.6. Pro: Studies have shown public school children are better prepared for university.[Public school better for university prep](https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/public-school-students-better-prepared-for-university-1.1228791)
1.5. Con: Private schools enhance individual and educational freedom.
1.5.1. Pro: By limiting means of teaching to a set method or single way, we lose out on diversity of thought and critical thinking.
1.5.1.1. Pro: The banning of private schools is not the same as the homogenisation of education. Only in certain systems is all state-run education the same, and private schools are not necessary for diversity in education.
1.5.1.2. Pro: Diversity in all things is nice, but from an individual child's perspective it's more important that they get a good education that doesn't limit their ways of thinking, as could occur in a privately-run institution with a moral agenda.
1.5.1.3. Pro: Society benefits from diversity of thought within a single mind - rather than between opposing parties - as this allows for rational discussion. This is achieved with a well-rounded education, not lots of different ways of potentially biased teaching.
1.5.1.4. Pro: Government run schools can be negatively influenced by politics, and private schools can offset that.
1.5.1.4.1. Pro: Governments regularly use the public schools to control the thinking of the next generation. Private schools provide an alternative to this and a check against government power.
1.5.1.4.1.1. Pro: [China](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/15/world/asia/china-schools-propaganda-education.html) currently uses its public school system to instil loyalty to the state and to the Communist Party.
1.5.1.4.1.2. Pro: Nazi Germany used public schools extensively to indoctrinate children in various Nazi ideologies. [ushmm.org](https://www.ushmm.org/wlc/en/article.php?ModuleId=10007820)
1.5.1.4.1.2.1. Con: Nazi ideologies had permeated much of private society as well as public. There is no evidence to suggest that a greater emphasis on private education would have changed the beliefs of children in Nazi Germany. To expand: Private schools would likely have felt the pressure from significant figures in society who held Nazi beliefs.
1.5.1.4.1.3. Con: In democratic societies this point is less valid. Checks against the government already exist in the form of elections, freedom of speech and the judicial process.
1.5.1.4.1.3.1. Con: If the next generation is raised to the think those checks are less important or secondary to other concerns, they can be circumvented.
1.5.1.4.1.4. Con: Private schools are similarly at risk of controlling the thinking of students, often being owned by or run according to the wishes of a particular religion.
1.5.1.4.1.4.1. Con: Private schools are decentralized and voluntary, whereas public schools would be centralized and involuntary. All private schools will not have the same biases, allowing for greater diversity of thought and educational approach.
1.5.1.4.1.5. Con: This is better solved by strong regulation and politically independent regulaory bodies, such as exist in the UK and USA
1.5.1.4.1.6. Pro: Children raised in a system where government has the power to forbid independent schooling will be more accepting of government forbidding other things.
1.5.1.4.1.7. Con: Free schools can correct this better than private schools, and without the exclusion of 99% of households [en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_school_\(England)\)
1.5.1.4.2. Pro: Politically cautious school boards can prevent public schools from addressing contentious topics.
1.5.1.4.3. Con: Private schools can be even more politically controlled, as they are critically dependent on the support of fee-paying parents, who often come from a specific societal class and therefore political viewpoint.
1.5.1.4.3.1. Pro: As privately-schooled children often end up running the country, this can have a much greater impact on the way the country is run, and is more cyclical.
1.5.1.4.3.2. Con: This is not being controlled by politicians. It is being controlled by people with political opinions, which is usually everyone.
1.5.1.5. Pro: Some alternative private schools provide pioneering and creative ways of learning which have positively influenced mainstream education, for example Wardolf/Steiner schools.
1.5.1.6. Con: It is possible to have a public school system and provide teachers with autonomy.
1.5.1.6.1. Con: It is indeed possible, however public systems tend to be standardized.
1.5.1.7. Pro: There is no harm in having different ways of teaching the same thing, or even places that encourage someone to go above and beyond the baseline.
1.5.1.8. Con: -> See 1.5.1.4.1.4.1.
1.5.2. Pro: No one has a right to forcibly stop people from getting the education they want for their children.
1.5.2.1. Pro: Banning private schools has been ruled unconstitutional by the [US Supreme Court](https://www.law.cornell.edu/supremecourt/text/268/510).
1.5.2.1.1. Con: This is not an argument, but a pure appeal to authority.
1.5.2.1.2. Pro: Oregon tried to ban private schooling in 1922. It was found to be [unconstitutional](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pierce_v._Society_of_Sisters) by the United States Supreme Court in 1925.
1.5.2.2. Pro: Parents should be able to provide for their children with the wealth they have worked for.
1.5.2.2.1. Con: There are [reports](https://www.economist.com/news/finance-and-economics/21731434-more-half-global-wealth-owned-top-1-rich-get-richer-and) suggesting that the wealth of the rich is increasing and that the gap between rich and poor widening. Parents utilising wealth to provide an educational advantage is an example of how this 'gap' was created and continues to widen.
1.5.2.2.1.1. Con: Going by this [study,](http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11f0019m/11f0019m2015367-eng.htm) it seems that the parents would already be inclined to provide extra education regardless of the wealth levels they had \(average income of the parents 44k\).  The advantage of providing extra education to your kids is evident regardless of wealth. The right type of education will lead to you having more power.
1.5.2.2.2. Con: This assumes that the rich have worked for their wealth. For much of the upper class it is a matter of inheritance, as opposed to hard work, that has granted them their wealth.
1.5.2.2.2.1. Con: Ancestors should be able to provide for their descendants with the wealth they have worked for.
1.5.2.3. Con: Children have rights to an education that puts them on a level playing field with other children
1.5.2.3.1. Con: An education that is not as good as someone else’s still has lots of worth.
1.5.2.3.2. Con: Extending this logic would mean that all schools in an entire country would have to be of the exact same quality, which would be entirely impossible.
1.5.2.3.2.1. Con: It isn't impossible, it is just practiucally very difficult. Eliminating murder and violence are almost impossible, we still have laws and systems to do so.
1.5.2.3.2.2. Con: Achieving something perfectly being impossible doesn't invalidate the benefits of approaching that perfection.
1.5.2.3.3. Con: People have a right to propel their child to being on a higher level than other children.
1.5.2.3.3.1. Con: People can do this in a range of ways, a private school does not have to be one of them.
1.5.2.3.4. Pro: Children's opportunities should not be limited by the finances or decisions of their parents.
1.5.2.4. Con: The education of children isn't about their parents' rights, it's about the children.
1.5.2.5. Pro: Spending one's income on self-improvement is laudable and should be encouraged.
1.5.2.5.1. Con: Parents sending children to a private school is not self-improvement, as children are not their parents.
1.5.2.6. Con: -> See 1.3.2.
1.5.2.7. Pro: Banning private schools would in effect be banning religious schools, a direct attack on religious freedoms.
1.5.2.7.1. Con: Forcing a child to spend over a decade in an educational institution with a religious agenda is an attack on that child's freedom to an unbiased education.
1.5.2.7.1.1. Con: Forcing a child to spend over a decade in an educational institution with no religious agenda would be no less an attack on that child's freedom to an unbiased education.
1.5.2.7.1.1.1. Con: A lack of a topic in a curriculum is not a contravention of rights of the child to the extent of teaching one religion over another. After all, teaching about every religion would be impossible.
1.5.2.7.2. Con: Education should be about encouraging freedom of thought. Religious education is provided in state schools in an un-biased fashion, fulfilling this criteria. In religious schools the education is prejudiced against other ways of thinking by preferring one religion over others, on no rational basis.
1.5.2.7.3. Con: Religion can be taught in state school. The only religious freedom that might be attacked is the freedom to exclude other religions from being part of a child's education.
1.5.2.7.3.1. Con: Traditional religious education involves more than just teaching about specific religions, but presenting a cohesive world view that includes that specific religion.
1.5.2.7.3.2. Con: The diversity of religious beliefs makes teaching each kind in every state school impractical.
1.5.2.7.3.3. Con: Parents should be allowed to indoctrinate their children.
1.5.2.7.3.3.1. Pro: It is totalitarian to disallow parents from teaching their kids.
1.5.2.7.3.3.2. Pro: As the most important person in their life, not teaching your children how to live is worse than teaching them doctrine.
1.5.2.7.3.3.3. Con: Parents have the biggest influence on a child's life and have plenty of time to indoctrinate their children outside of school hours if that is what they wish to do.
1.5.2.7.4. Pro: The word ban in any context is dangerous. Particularly in education. Freedom is easy to cede but hard to regain, and must be ceded only in the most important circumstances for society.
1.5.2.7.5. Pro: Parents have a right to pass on their religious beliefs and traditions to their children.
1.5.2.7.5.1. Con: Parents can pass on their religious beliefs without a private school.
1.5.2.7.5.2. Con: Children also have rights and the state has a duty to uphold the right, in this case, to provide children with a worldview that may mean they choose a different religion.
1.5.2.7.5.2.1. Con: Children are more than free to choose a different belief system once they are independent from their families.
1.5.2.7.5.2.2. Con: Allowing government to decide what religions and philosophies a child must be exposed to inherently means government will pick some religions over others.
1.5.2.7.6. Pro: Banning private schools has been used as an attack on religious minorities in the past by the KKK. [depts.washington.edu](http://depts.washington.edu/civilr/kkk_i49.htm)
1.5.2.8. Pro: Many times, private schools offer a better education than local public schools, and are therefore a better option for parents with their kids' best interests in mind.
1.5.3. Con: The increase in freedom private schools bring about is felt mostly among the wealthy, who experienced the most freedom to begin with. Inversely, they decrease freedom for the poor by expanding the list of things they are excluded from.
1.6. Con: Private schools are safer than public schools. [Kids Are Safer When They’re in Private Schools](https://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/kids-are-safer-when-theyre-private-schools)
1.6.1. Con: Only if there are state schools to take the more challenging students.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Private schools are able to select and exclude their students. It is easier for behaviour to be controlled if entry is selective and exclusion is simpler.
1.6.1.2. Pro: The students with more problematic behaviour still have to go school somewhere. If there were only private schools, they would not be safer because the more challenging students would be in them instead of the state schools.
1.6.1.3. Pro: Problematic student behaviour is a societal problem that manifests itself in schools. Private schools avoid this societal problem by pushing more challenging students into state schools. This concentrates problematic behaviour and is detrimental to education.
1.7. Con: Private schools are [cheaper](https://www.edchoice.org/blog/new-study-finds-americas-school-voucher-programs-have-saved-billions/) to run.
1.8. Pro: Private education leads to greater societal inequality.
1.8.1. Pro: Private schools allow wealthier people and their children to segregate themselves from the general population.
1.8.1.1. Con: If parents who can afford to choose what school their child goes to perceive the general population as abusive, unintelligible, or immoral they then have a personal obligation to protect their children from the influence of the population.
1.8.1.1.1. Con: This is a circular argument as private schools increase inequality and thereby contribute to the outcomes of poverty described above.
1.8.1.1.2. Con: Those parents can exercise that obligation at home, while at school, their children will learn about the whole world.
1.8.1.2. Pro: The integration of children from all economic backgrounds could lead to more tolerance and positive cultural influences.
1.8.1.3. Con: Most schools have an municipal board that determines oversight.  Public funding comes from the state/province and is divided upon by these boards \(or municipal property taxes it varies but that is a local touch to funding\).  The powerful upper class has as much of a say as every other voter in a state/province.
1.8.1.4. Pro: This fosters indifferent/ignorant perceptions of poverty among the wealthy, many of whom end up making the decisions within society.
1.8.2. Pro: It is likely that the wealthy are the only ones who can afford to send their children to private schools, which means that the families living in poverty may never get out of that continuous cycle as they don't have the access to higher education which may better prepare an individual for working life.
1.8.2.1. Con: In the United Stated we have incredible income mobility, even with the current education standards a vast majority of the poor will end up in the middle class.
1.8.2.2. Con: [86%](https://www.seeker.com/how-most-millionaires-got-rich-1765840021.html) of millionaires reports that they did not come from a wealthy background.
1.8.2.2.1. Con: Only [35%](https://inequality.org/research/selfmade-myth-hallucinating-rich/) of Forbes 400 most rich people come from low-income backgrounds \(with similar circumstances to 95% of Americans\) while 60%  grew up in substantial privilege.
1.8.2.2.1.1. Pro: More than 20% of those in Forbes 400 most rich, [inherited](http://www.faireconomy.org/press_room/2012/report_says_forbes_400_misleads_about_wealth_and_opportunity) enough wealth to just make it to the list.
1.8.3. Pro: People of means always find a way to ensure their children are taken care of. If they were forced to send their children to public schools, they would use their wealth and political influence to make sure public schools were good \(and safe\).
1.8.3.1. Con: Most of the wealthy pay a disproportionate amount of property taxes, which in most cases funds the local schools, even if they have no children.
1.8.3.1.1. Con: Whatever type of taxation is used to fund schools \(or indeed anything\) will always benefit some people over others; this is a shortcoming of tax, not private schools per se.
1.8.3.1.2. Con: But they will have more 'skin in the game' if their children are attending the public school.
1.8.4. Con: We should not end private schools if they are better at educating than public ones.
1.8.4.1. Con: Private schools do not create more intelligent people. Rather, they import talent by selecting capable students who will work hard and/or possess natural ability. In contrast, state schools are generally open to all students, including those with disabilities.
1.8.5. Con: Private schools provide opportunities to low-income students through scholarships and bursary schemes that would otherwise not be available to them
1.8.5.1. Con: These scholarships and bursaries are usually only offered to a small number of students and do not address the broader issue of social inequality being exacerbated by private schooling.
1.8.6. Con: Suggesting the removal of private schools in the name of equality implies that people think private schools are better \(therefore, “unfair” to those not having the opportunity to attend them\). If that’s the case, why not remove or improve public schools instead?
1.8.7. Con: Because public schools are funded through [property taxes](https://capx.co/the-government-isnt-the-answer-to-educational-inequality/), public schools exacerbate educational inequality.
1.8.8. Pro: Private schools result in a disproportionate representation of wealthy elites in positions of power.
1.8.8.1. Con: Wealthy elites nearly always end up with disproportionate power. It is unclear if private school cause this imbalance or merely correlate to it.
1.8.8.1.1. Pro: Private pupils are disproportionately represented in positions of power or high paying positions because they tend to have a better grasp of social niceties and better networking connections. These are largely obtained from their parents not their schooling.
1.8.8.2. Con: -> See 1.5.2.2.1.1.
1.8.9. Pro: Private schooling contributes to inequality by giving children of wealthy and successful parents yet another advantage.
1.8.9.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.3.3.
1.8.9.2. Pro: Private school fees enjoy [charitable tax status](https://www.theguardian.com/education/2017/jun/11/private-schools-tax-charitable-status-eton-dulwich-college) and fees are not subject to VAT - valuable income that is lost to the exchequer.
1.8.9.2.1. Con: It is highly unlikely that the taxes gained would exceed the entire cost of educating the child in the public system.
1.8.9.3. Pro: Private schooling can offer the latest and greatest technology, giving their students a technological advantage rather then a merit based advantage.
1.8.9.3.1. Con: It’s not necessarily true that all private schools have access to better facilities. There are some public schools that have great opportunities when it comes to technology, and private schools who do not.
1.8.9.4. Con: Inequality should be adressed by giving opportunity to the poor, not taking opportunity away from the rich.
1.8.9.4.1. Con: Private education cannot be given to every child labelled as 'poor'. This form of inequality therefore cannot be addressed by giving opportunity to the poor.
1.8.9.4.2. Con: The mix of students from rich and poor backgrounds enriches a school. The removal of rich students from public schools removes learning opportunities for both the poor and the rich.
1.8.9.5. Con: The cost of education is not necessarily a determinant of how successful someone will be.
1.8.9.5.1. Con: But the concentration of resources often is.
1.8.10. Con: Truly rich and elite families will find other ways to give their kids advantages, such as private tutors, that may be out of reach for less elite families. Banning private schools may actually exacerbate the advantage the elite have.
1.8.10.1. Con: It is important to consider stratification across all levels of society, not just between the 'truly rich and elite' and everyone else. Private schools also increase stratification between the lower and middle classes, for example.
1.8.10.2. Con: People will always commit crimes, and yet we still have laws. Banning something might have unintended consequences, but often a policy achieves at least part of its intention.
1.8.10.3. Con: Rich and elite families already make use of a range of resources to advantage their children, including the use of tutors, while also using private schools.
1.8.10.4. Con: When it comes to education wealth doesn't provide more of it at these basic levels it makes the students more efficient.  The knowledge is set, how quickly you memorize it/have access to it is what wealth effects.
1.9. Con: Private schools can offer facilities and opportunities for students with specific needs that they would not find in a state school.
1.9.1. Con: No one should have a predisposed advantage to a potentially 'better' education or have access to better studying materials or highly qualified teachers as a child is born into an economic class and it is something they do not have control over, or is very difficult for them to change.
1.9.1.1. Con: Students can not control or change the intelligence they are born with either, but that is not sufficient reason to handicap their education.
1.9.2. Con: "[Free schools](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_school_\(England\))" provide many of the benefits of private schools, without the exclusion of the vast majority of households due to cost. Banning private schools would therefore not eliminate these alternative opportunities completely.
1.9.3. Pro: Opportunities are offered at private schools that state schools can not afford - it is not right to exclude all children from those opportunities just because some can not afford it.
1.9.4. Con: Schooling systems can cater for a diverse range of students regardless of whether they are public or private. Conversely, schooling systems can cater for a narrow range of students; again regardless of whether they are public or private.
1.9.5. Pro: Private schools can cater to families who desire specialized education pathways, if for example a certain school has a strong history of literary or scientific achievement in its alumni.
1.9.5.1. Con: There is nothing inherent about the state school system that precludes this, only underfunding
1.9.6. Pro: School choice programs tend to serve the less [advantaged](https://www.educationnext.org/vouchers-tend-serve-less-advantaged/).
1.9.7. Pro: Private schools can offer more experimental or specialized educational techniques than public schools.
1.9.8. Pro: Private schools are able to give attention to children that need it in specific areas, who would otherwise be left behind in the state system
1.9.8.1. Con: -> See 1.9.5.1.
1.9.8.2. Con: Not all private schools are created to give special attention to children who need it most. Lots of private schools provide a better education to those who can afford it \(who are otherwise ordinary\).
1.10. Con: Private schools preserve traditions that are absent, or otherwise impractical to maintain, in the state system.
1.10.1. Con: Given this has never been tried, and no examples are given, there is no reason to assume these traditions cannot be moved to a public system.
1.10.2. Pro: School uniform is an example of a tradition that is more difficult to enforce in the state system. If even a minority of parents cannot afford the clothing, it becomes an afforadbility issue.
1.10.3. Con: Not all of these traditions are good, and many can perpetuate socio-economic divides far beyond the school system, for example by creating 'old boys clubs'.
1.10.4. Pro: These traditions are often a significant part of national identity and culture.
1.10.4.1. Con: For a tradition to be core to a nations identity and culture it should be upheld by a large portion of it's population. In most countries the privately educated are a minority.
1.10.5. Pro: Some private schools preserve traditions of etiquette such as formal dress, etiquette at formal meals, etc.
1.10.6. Pro: Many sports are played either almost exclusively or mostly in private schools.
1.10.6.1. Pro: Very niche sports such as the Eton field Game would be extremely difficult to financially support in the state system given their uptake is so small [en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eton_field_game)
1.10.7. Pro: Some past times are preserved and encouraged disproportionately at private schools. Some of these are formalised as societies; for example debating societies are common at private schools.
1.10.7.1. Con: Debate Teams are a poor example of a private school advantage. This site clearly highlights these are prevalent in public schools: [speechanddebate.org](https://www.speechanddebate.org/rankings/)
1.10.8. Pro: Religious traditions and ceremonies, which have cultural significance to people of all beliefs, are a common feature of older private schools.
1.10.9. Pro: Less tangible cultural traditions are preserved at private schools, including such things as styles of humour, ways of interaction and modes of thought.