Discussion Title: Should There Be Religious Exemptions To The Law?

1. There should not be religious exemptions to the law.
1.1. Con: Religious exemptions are eventually extended to all, which creates a more open and tolerant society.
1.1.1. Pro: The ability to [opt out of military service](https://www.jstor.org/stable/1227529) and the [Pledge of Allegiance](https://education.findlaw.com/student-rights/the-pledge-of-allegiance-and-legal-challenges-in-education.html) were originally fought for by religious groups and now the right to opt out has now been granted to everyone.
1.1.2. Pro: The [right to affirm](https://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-32809040) rather than take an oath to enter political office was granted in the United Kingdom to Quakers first in 1866 before it was extended to atheists in 1888.
1.1.3. Con: Religious exemptions aren't democratic allowing them to exist sets a bad precedence.
1.2. Pro: There's no exception to the law, if religious people reject civil law fine, but they obey it or end up in prison, simple arrangement.
1.3. Pro: Exemptions should not be absolute, as it depends on which laws are being defined.
1.3.1. Pro: Natural laws concerning murder, rape, property rights apply to all and warrant no exemptions. Arbitrary laws \(conscription, taxation, mandatory vaccination, imminent domain, etc ad infinitum\) represent tyranny that should be opposed by any means possible including religious exemptions if you can get them.
1.4. Pro: Believing that religious practices such as genital mutilation are right does not make them so.
1.5. Con: Both law and religion are arbitrary constructs of man. These constructs are fallible, therefore there should be exemptions to both religion and law.
1.5.1. Con: Law is the one thing that unifies all. Religion depends from person to person, as such even if both of them are 'arbitrary' this does not mean that they are equal to one another
1.5.1.1. Con: Law isn’t universal, it’s different depending on which country you are in, and in many countries, religion has greatly impacted the law of the land, even if places are becoming more secular, just as local culture has affected religious practice. So sometimes they are equal to each other.
1.6. Pro: Religious exemptions create the possibility of a multiclass system whereby some people can dodge civil responsibilities by claiming it offends their religious belief. There should be no exceptions for religious belief. This does not stop people believing whatever they wish to believe provided it does not impose a burden on another individual or society at large.
1.7. Con: Specific, tailored, religious exemptions can allow the government to balance the goals of the laws with religious freedom.
1.7.1. Pro: The government has a general obligation to educate its citizens. Certain religions have deeply held convictions against government sponsored schooling. [Religious exemptions for homeschooling](https://heav.org/virginia-homeschool-laws/religious-exemption/religious-exemption-demystified/) can allow laws to not impose undue burdens for those who have deeply held convictions.
1.7.2. Con: The government should not favor religious beliefs in any scenario.
1.8. Pro: Religious exemptions, when health issues such as vaccines are concerned, are detrimental to the whole. One person's religious exemption isn't going to protect others if they contract an illness. The same goes for other aspects as well. A certain religion requesting exemption from a social responsibility, at best, puts an undue burden on the rest of society, and, at worst, actively poses a danger.
1.9. Pro: There are no boundaries to religious belief, and therefore no boundaries to the exemptions they might ask for.  This could theoretically nullify all other laws.
1.9.1. Con: The laws so far nullified by religious freedom are limited in scope, and do not support the theoretical position that all laws will be nullified.
1.9.1.1. Con: Religious exceptions to vaccinations are already potentially deleterious enough and with broad enough scope in its effect to the public health that the fear that any laws could be nullified seems justified.
1.9.2. Con: There are no boundaries to exemptions that might be requested, but there could be boundaries to exemptions that would be granted. Therefore, the granting of any exemption does not entail, theoretically, the granting of all exemptions and the nullification of all other laws.
1.9.3. Con: There are no boundaries to any claims any group of citizens may form.
1.9.3.1. Con: There are absolutely boundaries on all people.  They are called laws. If the religious claim a supernatural/divine origin for their beliefs and, as such, that it is supreme over secular law then religious belief nullifies all laws.  It is doubtful that even the religious would want this.  The argument for religious exemption basically breaks down to 'I can and you can't'.
1.9.4. Pro: [Parody claims](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation-now/2015/11/16/church-flying-spaghetti-monster-massachusetts-religion/75862946/) have proven this to be true.
1.9.4.1. Con: Proving that a particular Department of motor vehicles will allow religious coverings does not prove the claim that “All laws are nullified”, only that religious beliefs allow head coverings in DMV photos.
1.10. Pro: No religion should should stand above a law that has been put in place to control everyone.
1.11. Con: Exemptions help the state avoid unnecessary confrontations with its citizens.
1.11.1. Con: If a law can be subverted for religious reasons, the law should be changed to allow non-religious people to operate in the same manner as their religious counterparts.
1.11.1.1. Con: The state generally doesn't test for religion in the context of conscientious objection, so non-religious people can operate in the same manner if they also have convictions that conflict with a policy.
1.11.1.2. Con: The law should not favor one citizen over the other, but exemptions are designed to ensure the law is just when applied to individual circumstances.

If the underlying circumstances are the same, it should apply to all, for example if the religious person claims moral grounds and the non-religious person claims moral grounds.

This is not the same as making any exemption universal regardless of underlying circumstances, which undermines the idea of an exemption.
1.11.1.3. Pro: Any law we are ok creating exceptions for is a law we do not hold as critical to society.  At that point we should all question why it is a law we allow enforced on the rest of us.  \(There may be a reason.. But it should be very carefully looked at\)
1.11.1.3.1. Con: Every single law has exceptions. Killing someone is illegal *except* in self-defense, in defense of others, in some cases in defense of property, by state agents in defense of the state and so on. Religious belief is simply another aspect of the context to be considered as relevant or irrelevant in the framing and application of a law.
1.11.2. Con: If a legal confrontation is unnecessary then the law itself is unnecessary. If a law is unnecessary then it should just be removed instead of exempted for the religious.
1.11.2.1. Con: This isn't always the case, in many cases the state can accomplish a goal while allowing exemptions.
1.11.2.1.1. Pro: In the event of a draft, pacifists can be placed in noncombat roles - this does not negate the draft. If a clerk doesn't want to sign a gay marriage license, they could be permitted to send it to another clerk, and the couple would still be able to marry. Since the goals of those policies can be accomplished without forcing confrontation, the confrontation is indeed unnecessary.
1.11.2.2. Pro: Considering the law has to have been enacted at some point, it can be assumed to actually be necessary. This immediately invalidates the need to prevent unnecessary confrontations, since there are no unnecessary confrontations.
1.11.3. Pro: Without exemptions, there would likely be tension or hostility between the state and those wanting to exercise their religious freedoms.
1.11.3.1. Con: -> See 1.11.1.
1.11.4. Con: The confrontation is necessary if the possible results negatively impact others in society.
1.12. Con: Religious people should not be forced to do things which are against their moral code.
1.12.1. Con: Laws are a set of rules for every citizen regardless of beliefs. If you disagree with a law, you can ask to change it, not avoid it.
1.12.2. Con: Every single person on earth has a different moral code, and some people have some objectively impractical ones. Setting a legal precedent for allowing personal codes to outweigh legal ones opens the door for complete freedom from the law for anyone with a belief against it, as it is to exempt their code from objective critique of actions \(the founding process of formal laws\) on the basis of their holding of it alone.
1.12.3. Con: By this logic, it could be challenged that anyone holding any strong belief could not be forced to do things against their moral code. It is highly likely this would be abused in society simply to avoid the law.
1.12.3.1. Con: In the US, various  conditions must be met before a belief is considered protected under the constitution, including attempts at defining religion and determining whether a belief is "sincerely held." 
[www.aclu.org](https://www.aclu.org/files/assets/know_your_rights_--__religion_november_2012_0.pdf)

Without advocating these specific tests, clearly limits can be set to prevent abuse.
1.12.4. Pro: Forcing vaccination creates a moral and legal dilemma for the religious individual.
1.12.4.1. Pro: An individual may be torn between obeying religious law and man-made laws.
1.12.4.1.1. Pro: Either choice results in disobeying, and thus moral or legal consequences.
1.12.4.2. Con: Non-Vaccination is something that impacts [herd immunity](https://www.cidresearch.org/blog/the-threat-of-the-anti-vaccine-stance-part-i), increases chance of [super-viruses](https://www.historyofvaccines.org/content/articles/viruses-and-evolution), and can have drastic, unavoidable, and direct consequences for people who do not share that belief.
1.12.4.3. Con: There are [no religions](https://www.verywellfamily.com/religious-exemptions-to-vaccines-2633702) where the doctorine is explicitly against vaccination, only groups that develop a local personal belief.
1.12.4.3.1. Pro: This presupposes a specific definition of religion \(and doctrine\), one which is certainly not embraced by those who hold those beliefs.
1.12.5. Pro: [Historically](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persecution_of_Christians_in_the_Soviet_Union) forcing compliance of all members of a religion to all laws has been a tool of [oppression](https://freetibet.org/about/religion).
1.12.6. Con: Not all moral rights are equal.  Some [religious](https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.advocate.com/politics/2017/10/08/religious-right-overjoyed-license-discriminate%3famp) and moral practices, if allowed, impact the [rights](https://m.huffpost.com/us/entry/6997088) of others who do not consent and cannot reasonably opt out \(e.g. without quitting their job with major employers\).
1.12.6.1. Con: This point, and others like it which point out that actions by one may have consequences for others, argue for limits on, not avoidance of, religious/conscience objections.
1.13. Pro: -> See 1.11.1.
1.14. Con: Some people believe the laws of God outweigh the laws of man.
1.14.1. Con: Many religions also teach adhering to the law of the land. Christianity urges believers to pray for rulers \([1 Timothy 2:2](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1+Timothy+2%3A2&version=NIV)\)
1.14.2. Con: The holding of a belief, or indeed the number of people holding a belief, is not a necessary marker of it's soundness. Therefore this not an argument against the motion, simply a statement that some people are against the motion for a given reason.
1.14.3. Con: To exempt based on religion is a slippery slope, as anyone can claim to believe in God's laws to avoid abiding by civilian laws.
1.14.4. Pro: In 2015, Kentucky government clerk [Kim Davis](https://learningenglish.voanews.com/a/mans-law-or-gods-law/2954390.html) refused to sign the marriage license between people of the same gender since it went against her religion as an Apostolic Christian.
1.14.4.1. Con: Which was a direct violation of the First Amendment of the United States Constitution. Her actions cost her her job, and rightfully so, she is employed by the government not God.
1.14.4.1.1. Pro: In this case, she was not acting as an individual, but as an agent of the state. She may have personally found the marriage immoral, but she had no right to dictate that as the state's position.
1.14.5. Con: This is a loaded argument attributing a set of personally preferred 'laws' to an assumed god.
1.14.6. Con: If a person believes the laws of God are more important than the laws of man, they should follow God's law regardless of the legal consequences.
1.14.6.1. Con: -> See 1.11.
1.15. Con: There should not be a religious exception to the law, there should be a moral exception to the law or a conscientious exemption based on some ethic.
1.15.1. Con: If any personal moral ideal constitutes an exemption a law becomes meaningless.
1.16. Pro: Law should judge everyone equally.
1.16.1. Con: Allowing for some religious exemptions to the law is not the same as allowing all religious exemptions to all laws. [Employment Division v Smith](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Employment_Division_v._Smith) allowed the government to deny unemployment benefits for someone who tested positive for peyote, which shows that religious exemptions do not lead to all laws becoming null and void.
1.16.2. Pro: Allowing people to violate law simply because they believe they don't have to follow it makes all law null and void.
1.16.3. Pro: Any alteration, for religious purposes or not, that compromises the principle of equality before the law is a step backwards to a less civilized society.
1.16.3.1. Pro: Throughout most of history, our ancestors have lived with the reality of a law that does not apply equally to everyone. We just have to look at history to see that the unequal application of the law has caused abuse, exploitation and untold misery.
1.16.4. Con: Equally does not mean identically. The law takes into account many variables, and sincerely held religious belief is one variable that is appropriate to consider when crafting a law.
1.16.5. Con: The suggestion is not to allow people to violate the law. The suggestion is to craft a law that accounts for *religion or conscience* so that exercising your natural rights doesn't *require* you to violate the law. 

It's not a blank check payable by "religion" - it's a carefully considered and deemed appropriate *exemption* that just happens to be based on religious factors.
1.16.5.1. Con: People who believe in a certain set of ideas should not be exempted from the law in any scenario.
1.17. Pro: For citizens in the US, this violates the [First Amendment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution): "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion".
1.17.1. Pro: This amendment is put in place because religions which would be placed above the law would have to be defined by legislators; ergo, the laws would give preferential treatment to the majority religion of the people in power.
1.17.2. Con: Allowing any religion to cite religious doctrine as a reason for exemption from the enforcement of a law does not establish that religion. On the contrary, such exemptions would, by virtue of the 1st amendment, be required to apply equally to all religions.
1.17.2.1. Pro: For instance, the conscientious objector exemption to the draft allows for Christians and Buddhists alike to register as pacifists.
1.17.3. Con: The First Amendment also states that Congress shall make no law prohibiting the free exercise of religion.
1.17.3.1. Con: Making no law establishing a religious institution comes first in the text, meaning it is deemed most important. Also, the rationale is that the amendment is to protect against discrimination from both religious institutions and the State.
1.18. Pro: Religion is arbitrary. What is acceptable by one religion may not be acceptable by another one and only laws made without using religion as it's basis can offer true freedom.
1.18.1. Con: The discussion is not about using religious as a basis for laws, it is about adding exemptions to laws based on other considerations so they do not infringe on religious belief or conscience.

This is a reasonable general rule, with the actual exemptions considered on a case by case basis.
1.18.1.1. Con: Religion which is something personal should not have an effect on something unanimous like the law.
1.18.2. Con: It depends on the law.  If the law is so restrictive that religions should have to have exemptions to have free practice \(which is a true freedom\), then your law \(as is this one\) should not exist.  The only reason there should be laws which restrict freedom of religion is when they kill, maim, or otherwise take liberties away from observers or others without their consent.
1.19. Con: Adherence to the law in secular governments should be dictated by secular ideals.
1.19.1. Pro: Religious exemptions should be written into a law if appropriate. If such action is deemed inappropriate then no one should be exempt.
1.19.2. Con: If the action is not deemed inappropriate, then its legality should not be restricted to those of certain religious faiths. It should instead be legal for everyone.
1.20. Con: Freedom of religion and conscience is a fundamental human right which no ruler, representative or monarch, can abrogate.
1.20.1. Con: Citizen X holds the sincere belief that citizen Y must be killed in accordance to his religion, the law cannot accept this and MUST prevent X from acting on his beliefs and is perfectly justified in forcing them to act in violation of those sincerely held beliefs.
1.20.1.1. Pro: If one religion can circumvent laws they cannot argue if an opposite religion where to do the same in opposing terms.
1.20.2. Con: What we have here is a collision between 2 different ethical systems \(civic and religious\). Since every human is part of the civic system but not part of every religious systems, the civic system must prevail.
1.20.2.1. Pro: In a free democratic society there are opportunities for legal civil protest. Should there come a time when a person has to decide what master they serve and when the law delivers injustice then vocal protest can be called upon. [sojo.net](https://sojo.net/articles/18-arrested-anti-death-penalty-protest)
1.20.3. Pro: By definition, if the law is not compatible with religious requirements and requires an exemption, absent that exemption the law would be abrogating the person's freedom of religion/conscience, either by preventing them from acting on their beliefs or forcing them to act in violation of them.
1.20.3.1. Con: One person nor their views cannot outweigh another's, let alone society as a whole. If something is deemed bad for society as a whole, it cannot be deemed acceptable for a few, based off opinion alone.
1.21. Con: Laws should not be so constrictive that they need religious or conscience exemption.
1.21.1. Con: Laws serve to keep people safe in modern times. Religious 'laws' are not modern, and therefore are not valid for what is necessary today.
1.21.1.1. Pro: If certain laws were not in place, many people who are protected today, would still be under religious damnation.
1.21.2. Con: Laws, no matter how simple, will run afoul of some religion somewhere. It is impossible to create laws that govern many people, that won't step on someone's beliefs.
1.21.3. Pro: Laws should enforce positive freedom
1.21.4. Con: The law against murder is not constrictive, but someone can make a religion that allows it. While some may want a religious exemption, it is good that we don't allow it.
1.21.5. Con: A law may require something for the good of many, but may be personally detrimental.
1.22. Con: This makes it possible for the government to harass certain religions.
1.22.1. Con: The government's focus is not to harass people of a particular religious faith, but to make sure everyone is in compliance with certain rules and regulations.
1.22.2. Pro: Muslim women must remove their hijab for their driver's license.
1.22.2.1. Pro: A Muslim woman going out in public without her hijab goes against her religion. She should not be required to adhere to this.
1.22.2.1.1. Con: Religion does not supersede the law.
1.22.2.2. Con: This is not harassment, but rather a requirement for overall public safety.
1.22.2.2.1. Con: If identification is the issue, there are other methods of identification available.
1.22.2.2.2. Pro: The picture on a license has to show all of a person's face and hair so they can be fully identifiable.
1.22.3. Pro: This may open the door for other religious exemptions to be denounced.
1.22.3.1. Con: Religious exemptions at their core represent the idea that one's beliefs gives them different rights than someone with another set of ideas. This should be denounced
1.23. Pro: If religious exemptions were allowed, people could arbitrarily create religions that enable them to avoid laws they don't like.
1.23.1. Pro: [Pastafarianism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flying_Spaghetti_Monster) \(even if it has no serious ambitions as a religion\) has been created to illustrate just this point.
1.23.2. Con: The exemption process involves taking multiple factors into account before approval and as currently implemented does take steps to prevent these types of abuses.
1.23.2.1. Con: In reality religious exemption laws only exist in the United States and the only factor that is seemed to be taken into account is whether the faith based upon which one wishes to discriminate another is Christianity. There is not one discrimination law made for atheists, Muslims or anyone other than a Christian.
1.24. Pro: Religious exemptions from laws can be harmful to people who don't share that religion's ideology.
1.24.1. Pro: There are religious exemptions to vaccine laws which put people who can't get vaccines at risk.
1.24.1.1. Pro: Religious exemptions to vaccinations in the military can put members of a troop in danger of foreign disease.
1.24.1.1.1. Con: The key would be to educate the troops on the dangers, and allow them to make that decision for themselves. Making that decision is deeply personal.
1.24.1.1.1.1. Con: The military is not about personal freedom, but collective responsiblity. The collective responsibility of the unit is to achieve the goal stated by their orders, and allowing even one person to pose those dangers to the entire group is abhorent to the basis of military life.
1.24.2. Con: This is not an argument against the religious exemptions in principle and is instead noting that other factors ought to be weighed and perhaps curtail those exemptions.
1.24.3. Con: The degree to which a specific exemption might affect others can be measured against the individual's freedom and that exemption can be granted or denied on those grounds.
1.24.4. Pro: There should not be exceptions when the impact of the exception directly \(or unavoidably - e.g. employment\) and without consent impacts the rights or beliefs of others, as that would create an impossible paradox.
1.24.4.1. Con: There is an important distinction between the state infringing on a person's freedom of religion and an individual taking an action or position that might impact others based on their beliefs.

It would not be a paradox to prevent one but to allow or remain neutral on the other. \(Although we may want to disallow it on other grounds.\)
1.24.4.1.1. Con: The state remaining neutral on an issue is the same as supporting it, as non-state actors cannot legally defend themselves in most cases.  \(E.g.. Conversion therapy\)
1.24.4.1.1.1. Con: Even accepting, for the sake of discussion, that neutrality is equivalent to direct action, the actions are fundamentally different. Supporting an individual's right to choose \(or even parent's right to choose for their children\) by remaining neutral on that choice is not in conflict with proscribing the government from making that choice mandatory for all.
1.24.4.1.1.2. Con: Neutral non-interference is only equivalent to support if the question is within the purview of the authority in question. If the state cannot support or oppose religion. its non-interference cannot be seen as support.