Discussion Title: Should Quebec separate from the rest of Canada?

1. Quebec should separate from the rest of Canada.
1.1. Pro: A greener economy would flourish in Quebec if it obtained sovereignty.
1.1.1. Pro: Quebec has a sophisticated [hydro-electricity](http://www.regie-energie.qc.ca/audiences/3541-04/PreuveInterv/SE-AQLPA-05_doc01_3541_24nov04.pdf) distribution network which could be used more efficiently.
1.1.2. Pro: Quebec has the biggest [lithium reserve](http://www.ledevoir.com/economie/actualites-economiques/360553/le-quebec-sur-le-point-de-redevenir-un-producteur-de-lithium) in the world which is not currently being exploited efficiently.
1.1.3. Con: There is no reason to asses that an independent Québec would inherently be more eco-friendly than a Québec being a part of Canada.
1.1.3.1. Con: There is no major petrol group in Québec. they all are foreigners based.
1.1.3.2. Con: It would not be necessary more eco-friendly, but it would have the political power to be.
1.1.4. Pro: -> See 1.1.3.2.
1.2. Pro: Separating from Canada would ensure the preservation of the Quebec language and culture.
1.2.1. Con: There is no evidence that the French language and culture is under threat in Quebec.
1.3. Pro: Actually, it's rather difficult for any province to secede from Canada now. We have a bill in place known as The Clarity Act
1.3.1. Con: This act precise the way to do democratically \(is it a word\). It does not makes it more difficult. Just more clear.
1.3.1.1. Con: Then Act states that the native nations, the provinces as well as minorities have to be taken into account and consulted in the negotiations which would make them indeed much more complex than what was suggested during the two referendum campaigns.
1.3.2. Con: Le droit international reconnait la souveraineté des populations sur leur territoire, de manière inaliénable.
1.4. Con: The Fraser Institute estimated that Quebec receives $5.7 billion from the Canadian government every year. That certainly more than offsets the taxes that Quebeckers are "forced" to pay to the national government. An independent Quebec would see a sharp increase in taxes and a lower standard of living.[fraserinstitute.org](https://www.fraserinstitute.org/article/quebec-subsidized-rest-canada)
1.4.1. Con: Fraser institute is a strong pro canadian think tank. By the way, this is true. Québec should raise his tax, mainly due to socialism économic theory, that are favored in Québec.
1.5. Con: Separating from Canada would cripple Quebec's economy.
1.5.1. Con: Québec ranked [27th in GDP per capita](http://www.stat.gouv.qc.ca/salle-presse/communique/communique-presse-2014/mai/mai1422_an.html) in 2013, meaning, had it been a country, it would've been the 23rd richest in the world. It most definitely has a sufficiently strong economy to become a country.
1.5.2. Con: Additional trade deals with the U.S and France would potentially limit any damage to the economy.
1.5.2.1. Con: Any trade deal with a European country would mean a EU trade deal rather than with a single member state.
1.5.3. Pro: Currently, many federal government offices are on the Quebec side of the National Capital Region. These would have to be moved and people crossing the Ottawa River would need passports.
1.5.3.1. Pro: The same would apply to residents of the Magdeleine Islands who take the ferry to PEI.
1.5.4. Pro: Due to economic ties, Quebec would still be very dependent on Canada.
1.5.4.1. Con: The whole international economic system is based on world-range free markets, tying countries' future to other countries. Québec would be dependent on Canada and the USA just like every other country in the world is dependent to other countries' economy.
1.5.5. Con: There's absolutely no data to support this claim. Moreover, there's already studies that claim that Quebec would be better off financially without paying in double for all departments like environment, agriculture, health, transport etc. Also, we will keep the 53 billions we send every year and invest them in our strategic fields. We are already a mature economy. In fact, the Canada has more to lose than the contrary.
1.5.6. Con: All economic relations will continue. Maybe with some changes but there will be no physical wall.
1.6. Con: The separation of Quebec would create an immediate backlash against Francophones outside Quebec, which would increase pressure to assimilate. The net result would be a loss in the number of Francophones in North America. Moreover, loyal Canadians would boycott Quebec products and Quebec industries would suffer, particularly the dairy industry, that is protected by the Canadian government.
1.6.1. Con: There is already a strong 'Quebec-bashing'. So the backlash is not as large as expected.
1.7. Con: Quebec would be hard-pressed to pay its share of the national debt \(roughly $17, 800 per person\) and take over responsibility for all the current federal areas. The tax burden would be horrendous. Canada would no longer take Quebec interests into account when deciding on interest rates and the value of the Canadian dollar.
1.7.1. Con: Unfortunately, Quebec's share of canadian debt will be a long debate because the day QC won't be part anymore of Canada, we won't have legal responsabilies against creditors who have in their hands canadian government bonds. That said, we will have to 1\) determine the exact assets/liabilities we have in common in Canada \(we paid for bridges, buildings outside QC that will remain there\) and 2\) what are payment's terms of our share of the debt. As you can see, it's more complicated than you think.
1.7.2. Pro: It is important to recognise the part canada played in Québec developpement, and take the due share. Many infrastructure will be bought or transfer from Canada to Québec, with a part of the debt.
1.8. Con: Canada needs Quebec to stay.
1.8.1. Pro: In case of independence the eastern provinces are isolated from Canada and might join Québec.
1.8.2. Pro: Québec owns the St-laurent river, which is an access to Atlantic Ocean.
1.9. Pro: Separating from Canada would reduce the taxes Quebecers are forced to pay to the federal government.
1.9.1. Con: The services Canada offers to Quebecers for the money Quebecers give it would still have to be covered, but this time by Québec's government, through new taxes.
1.10. Con: Quebec does not have sufficient military defense to protect themselves in the event of an international conflict.
1.10.1. Con: Historically there is no military conflict in North America.
1.10.1.1. Con: This does not necessarily indicate the likelihood of conflict in the future.
1.10.2. Con: Quebec needs no military strength in the present; in the current international relations' deliberative culture course, it would be absurd to propose a state of Québec being attacked in a short-term view.
1.10.3. Con: Québec have a strong participation in the Canadian Armed Forces. These would be redirected to an armed forces of an independent Quebec.
1.11. Con: If a separation did occur Quebec's political influence would be limited.
1.11.1. Con: Quebec's political influence is already limited by it being a part of Canada.
1.11.2. Con: Separating from Canada may increase ties with European nations such as France.
1.11.3. Pro: A tiny, new nation is unlikely to yield much power of influence in global terms.
1.11.3.1. Con: The rest of [Canada](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canada) has only about 30 million inhabitants.
1.11.3.2. Con: Québec would then roughly be the 100th most populous country on nearly 200 countries. It wouldn't be tiny. [Switzerland](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Switzerland) is a country on its own and has a similar population as Québec. \([8.2M](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quebec)\)
1.11.4. Con: An independent Québec would seat at the UN and other great international organisations, instead of being subordinate to Canada.