Discussion Title: Should the US President Have the Power to Self-Pardon?

1. The US President should have the power to self-pardon, terminate inquiries for which he/she is a subject, and fire FBI officials conducting investigations related to the presidency.
1.1. Con: As a Constitutional Republic, the US government should allow no person or entity to be "above the law."
1.1.1. Pro: The pardon power must be limited if the basic structure of government is to survive. The power to self pardon includes \(for example\) the power to murder every member of the House and Senate \(violations of Federal law if done in DC\) without legal redress.
1.1.2. Pro: A President that is above the law would effectively end the rule of law. The integrity and power of the office could then be sold to the highest bidder.
1.1.2.1. Pro: Bribing public officials is already illegal. If the president were to use his pardoning powers in exchange for a bribe, the financier would be prosecuted immediately, and the president could face charges after leaving office. [law.cornell.edu](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/201)
1.1.2.1.1. Con: Such a crime would have to be proven with an investigation -- which the president has the authority to curtail.
1.1.2.1.2. Con: It does not matter if bribing public officials is illegal in this scenario, as the President could simply pardon them and himself.
1.1.3. Pro: This creates an incentive for criminals to run for president, in order for the chance to then self-pardon, which demeans the office
1.1.4. Pro: Once the precedent is set that the president can pardon themselves the ability has potential to be abused by for any type of crime.
1.1.5. Pro: The ability to self-pardon is essentially an expression of the "leader principle" in which the ruler is deemed to have absolute rights, above the laws that apply to other citizens. This is diametrically opposed to the concept of representational democracy.
1.1.5.1. Con: The leader principle is severely counter-balanced by the 535 member Congress.
1.1.6. Pro: No justification is given as to why the president in particular should gain such rights, rather than any other particular person in society
1.1.6.1. Con: The president being voted in by the people is justification for having that power as the people chose him to have that power.
1.1.7. Con: They are not above the law, they should be impeached if they are to be tried for crime. If the president is not impeached then they have pardon power per the constitution and should be allowed to execute that power as expressed in the constitution.
1.2. Pro: The Constitution doesn't explicitly prohibit self-pardons.
1.2.1. Pro: The pardon power is broad and near-absolute. And, for textual purists — nowhere in the body of the Constitution does it say the president cannot pardon himself. [pbs.org](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/can-president-trump-pardon)
1.2.1.1. Con: [Inherent in the notion of a pardon is that it’s bilateral](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/can-president-trump-pardon)
While not explicitly forbidden Congress could treat a self-pardon as a judge presiding over his own case which is illegal in the United States.
1.2.1.2. Con: There are many things the Constitution does not explicitly prohibit, or permit, for that matter - but the fact that the Constitution doesn't explicitly prohibit a given act, does not make that act constitutional.
1.2.2. Con: The question isn't whether the President can self-pardon, but if he should be allowed to. Just because it is allowed doesn't mean it should be.
1.2.2.1. Pro: Donald Trump is an example of someone who may abuse this power. He is clearly a businessman who does not appear to take shame in exploiting weak points in the law. He could rob a business of its wealth then self pardon himself and continue until he is satisfied.
1.2.3. Con: Even so, the rights that the Constitution doesn’t explicitly grant nor prohibit, according to the tenth amendment, are given to the states and the people of the United States. Suggesting that a power neither explicitly documented as a constitutional power given to the executive branch nor explicitly prohibited belongs to the federal government goes against the ideals of the tenth amendment to the Constitution.
1.2.3.1. Con: The pardon power is expressly granted, so the president pardoning himself is not in conflict with the 10th amendment.
1.2.3.1.1. Pro: He shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons for offences against the United States, except in cases of impeachment.
1.3. Pro: The highest office in the executive branch should have supreme authority in order to carry out the laws of the land.
1.3.1. Con: Putting any one person above the law is irresponsible and dangerous. If a sitting President has committed crimes of which needs to be pardoned then The President should answer for those crimes as any other American would.
1.3.2. Con: Supreme authority must have limits, or it becomes an unforgivable autocracy.
1.3.3. Con: You said "in order to carry out the laws of the land", but if they have authority to break the law, then the law isn't being carried out.
1.3.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.5.
1.3.4. Con: The Constitution is designed to prevent anyone from having supreme authority.
1.4. Pro: The FBI could garner an undue level of control over the presidential office if they were permitted to investigate with impunity. If the FBI were to conduct an illegal investigation on the President, then the President would be powerless to stop it.
1.4.1. Con: The FBI can only [investigate and present](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/28/part-600) its recommendations to the Attorney General, who would then recommend to Congress. [To remove the President,](https://litigation.findlaw.com/legal-system/presidential-impeachment-the-legal-standard-and-procedure.html)the Congress would need to vote to impeach in the House, then convict in the Senate with a 2/3rds majority vote.
1.5. Con: The FBI reports to the Justice Department, not the President. The President should not meddle in the investigations of the FBI and the justice department.
1.5.1. Con: The Department of Justice reports to the Attorney General, who is a member of the presidential cabinet at the whim of the president.
1.6. Pro: The President is always able to be impeached by the House and convicted by the Senate because the Constitution specifically prevents pardons in cases of impeachment \(Article II, Section 2\)
1.6.1. Pro: The Constitution answers this question for us:  “The President, Vice President and civil officers of the United States shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.”
— Article II, section 4, U.S. Constitution
1.6.1.1. Pro: The Constitution further states:  

“Judgment in cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than to removal from Office … but the party convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and Punishment, according to law.”

— Article I, section 9, U.S. Constitution
1.7. Con: Any governmental figure with the explicit power to absolve themselves of crime is capable of amassing huge amounts of unchecked power.
1.7.1. Pro: By definition, any republic where the head of state has the ability to self-pardon is not democratic.
1.7.2. Con: The President can conspire with news organizations and political allies to already gain unchecked power. Obama's Attorney general called himself "Obama's wingman" and was also found to be in contempt of Congress.
1.7.3. Con: -> See 1.6.
1.8. Con: It is unlikely that the Framers of the Constitution intended to leave such a gaping loophole thwarting carefully constructed checks and balances within the three branches of federal government.
1.9. Con: The process of impeachment is an insufficient check of power on the presidency.
1.9.1. Pro: The process of impeachment is slow and vulnerable to political schemes such as filibusters.
1.9.2. Con: That's why it isn't the only check and balance. Congress can cut the president's funding, and the Supreme Court can declare a president's enforcement of the law unconstitutional.[List of constitutional checks and balances for the 3 branches of government](https://www.usconstitution.net/consttop_cnb.html)
1.9.3. Pro: The final result of an impeachment is not a conviction, but removal from office.
1.9.4. Pro: Because impeachment [requires](https://www.senate.gov/reference/resources/pdf/98-806.pdf) a simple majority in the House of Representatives and a supermajority in the Senate, the president can get away with crimes so long as more than one half of the representatives or one third of the senators are loyal to the president's party.
1.9.4.1. Pro: The entire system is vulnerable to corruption, and needs addressing.
1.10. Con: The president can classify things for national security purposes, that way if he or she breaks the law, he or she can avoid being held accountable. Why give them pardon powers if they can do that?
1.11. Con: Fundamental rules in US case law include the tenet that no one may serve as a judge in their own case.