Discussion Title: Should creators cater to their fans?

1. Should creators cater to their fans?
1.1. Pro: Following the fandom's desires means continued support of the fanbase.
1.1.1. Pro: For example, when Buffy the Vampire slayer ended on TV, the [Buffy Expanded Universe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buffy_the_Vampire_Slayer#Expanded_universe) started to grow in other media.
1.2. Con: Fanservice leads to decrease in quality.
1.2.1. Con: Recent trends would suggest otherwise.
1.2.1.1. Pro: Marvel comics are floundering as a direct result of taking comics in directions that fans largely disapprove of
1.2.1.2. Pro: Star Wars in its newest iterations are receiving mass negative reception for business decisions that alienate longtime fans
1.2.1.3. Pro: Sonic the hedgehog has been a panned series for decades now for its detachment from its roots and source material
1.2.1.4. Pro: Pokemon, one of the most profitable franchises in history, has changed very little in core mechanics throughout its nearly 30 year life-span, and has never stagnated or lost fan approval
1.2.1.5. Pro: Devil May Cry attempted to reinvent the series only to be met with extreme backlash, prompting Capcom to return to the root and original story and characters of the series.
1.2.1.6. Pro: Metal Gear Survive attempted to rewrite the entire premise of one of the most beloved series in gaming, and has been regarded as a critical failure
1.2.1.7. Pro: Blade Runner's sequel stayed remarkably true to the original legendary source material and is widely regarded as one of the best sequels in modern history
1.3. Pro: Fans feel appreciated when the work meets their hopes and expectations.
1.3.1. Pro: If hopes and expectations are not met, competing production companies may take over and produce spin-offs or similar series.
1.3.1.1. Pro: The Orville was created as a response to Star Trek: Discovery.
1.4. Con: Fanservice means the creator has less control.
1.4.1. Con: Accepting suggestions or criticisms is not losing control over the creative process.
1.4.1.1. Pro: In fact, it can be a way to improve one's creative process.
1.4.2. Pro: Giving in to fans' demands might back the story development into a corner.
1.5. Con: Catering to fans makes the art less original and/or predictable.
1.5.1. Pro: Fans are often interested in seeing their expectations met \(be it a romantic pairing or a plot result\) and it is likely the expectations from a majority are the more predictable options.
1.5.1.1. Con: Predictability does not equate to a lesser quality.
1.6. Pro: Fans help refine the creator's vision.
1.6.1. Pro: Fans' feedback can help spark new ideas and complete a character.
1.7. Pro: Fanservice is profitable from business standpoint.
1.7.1. Pro: Fans will be loyal when they can expect their wished-for scenarios to play out on screen.
1.8. Con: Fanservice leads to a stagnating fanbase, where new people don't join and veteran fans are the only ones providing feedback.
1.8.1. Con: If the ultimate product is good, there is no reason why new fans cannot join.
1.8.2. Con: Long-running series like Supernatural still have high ratings and attract new fans, often because of the series' reputation for teasing fans' desires.