Discussion Title: Should We Increase the Number of Votes For People Who Pay More Taxes?

1. Those who pay more tax should have an increased number of votes.
1.1. Con: This measure is against the very idea of democracy.
1.1.1. Pro: Granting more power to those already having the most power, e.g. great wealth, is called a suzerainty, NOT a representative republic. There are nations where this is current, whether oligarchic or monarchic, where folks can live unequally if they choose.
1.1.2. Pro: This measure would lower overall voter participation in elections.
1.1.2.1. Pro: More numerous poorer people are discouraged because their voices are individually worth less.
1.1.3. Pro: Everyone should have the same rights to begin with.
1.1.4. Pro: The rule of the government is not about wealth, but about people... "We the People". In[Social classes of Ancient Rome](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_class_in_ancient_Rome), the underclass were assessed based on their apparent wealth and allowed rights relative. The proletariat \(no wealth\) had no voting rights. This is no longer a democracy but a[Plutocracy](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plutocracy). Finally, the existence of wealth doesn't equal an ability to govern.
1.2. Con: A rich person shouldn't have more influence over where police budgets go for example, than the police force who are operating on the ground, who will ultimately earn less money. The people "on the ground" are the ones with the knowledge and experience to make more informed decisions as to what their priorities should be and so they should have an equal voting power.
1.3. Pro: Wealthy people should have more decision-making power over who runs the government.
1.3.1. Pro: Wealthy people can make decisions that are better for the country as a whole.
1.3.1.1. Pro: Wealthy people are more likely to support economically liberal policies that are better for the country as a whole - and this is good for the country.
1.3.1.1.1. Con: This claim makes an assumption that economically liberal policies are better for the country. This is a biased assumption that is not widely shared by the lower and middle classes.
1.3.1.1.2. Pro: The short-term impact may be difficult, but in the longer term, economically liberal policies are massively beneficial.
1.3.1.1.3. Con: The government loses regulation and therefore worsens conditions for the working class.
1.3.1.1.4. Pro: The government lowers taxes and it is therefore easier to start a business and move up the social ladder.
1.3.1.1.5. Con: The impact of the main measure may not be significant enough to sway an election.
1.3.1.1.5.1. Con: -> See 1.1.2.1.
1.3.1.1.5.2. Con: Wealthy people are encouraged to vote because they have a higher probability of making a difference.
1.3.1.2. Con: Wealthy people don't have the necessary experience and social feeling to be able to support causes that help the disadvantaged get ahead.
1.3.1.2.1. Pro: It is difficult to fully appreciate the needs of others when there is no frame of reference; for people in the lowest socioeconomic brackets, there are specific challenges that others may not appreciate having not lived through it.
1.3.1.2.2. Pro: Wealthy people will focus on helping themselves and therefore deepen socioeconomic differences.
1.3.1.2.3. Con: Poor people don't necessarily vote for the political forces that help them get ahead in the long term - they only vote based on emotions.
1.3.1.2.3.1. Con: Being poor does not make one incapable of making intelligent decisions that are not exclusively emotion-driven.
1.3.1.3. Con: They only deepen regional differences between different parts of the country.
1.3.1.3.1. Pro: The country's regions remain underdeveloped.
1.3.1.3.1.1. Pro: Wealthy people usually vote for the interests of metropolises.
1.3.1.3.1.1.1. Pro: Wealthy people are usually concentrated in the capital.
1.3.1.3.1.1.2. Con: This is in no sense universally true.
1.3.1.4. Pro: Wealthy people are better informed decision-makers.
1.3.1.4.1. Pro: Wealthy people don't get swayed by cheap populist promises that lead to unsustainable spending on welfare programs.
1.3.1.4.1.1. Pro: Wealthy people don't need small amounts from the government to support themselves and focus on systemic measures more.
1.3.1.4.1.2. Pro: They run businesses and manage their wealth, therefore they understand sustainable spending and investment better.
1.3.1.4.2. Pro: They have seen more cultures, places and met more people. Therefore their worldview is more informed.
1.3.1.4.2.1. Pro: They travel more than less resourceful people.
1.3.1.4.2.2. Con: This is very subjective; some wealthy people will not have travelled in the slightest.
1.3.1.4.3. Con: Wealthy people usually decide what is better for themselves, a minority.
1.3.1.4.3.1. Con: This is not necessarily true, but perpetuates cruel stereotypes about wealthy individuals.
1.3.1.4.4. Con: Wealthy people potentially have the opportunity for a more worldly view, but not all of them embrace that opportunity
1.3.2. Pro: Wealthy people are a minority that needs a stronger voice in the elections.
1.3.2.1. Con: They already have enough and are privileged enough to make a difference outside of politics.
1.3.3. Pro: Wealthy people contribute more to the running of the government.
1.3.3.1. Con: They only contribute because they already have more. It doesn't take away anything from them to give more. They're not better people.
1.3.3.1.1. Con: It isn't a moral but fiscal issue: they give more. Whether they are good people or not is irrelevant. They put in more, they should get more out.
1.3.3.2. Con: This could destroy any motivation for someone born to a poor family to work hard and improve their skills and education. It could also promote indolence among those born to wealthy families who might tend to “coast” on their wealth.
1.3.4. Con: Only [55% of even the most wealthy Americans vote Republican](https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2012/11/does-your-wage-predict-your-vote/264541/) meaning the political preferences of the rich are not significantly different from the rest of the population. As a result, election results are unlikely to differ significantly.
1.3.5. Pro: Because the wealthy are taxed at substantially larger amounts it is only fair that they get a proportional return.
1.4. Con: This would deepen the ideological rift between society's socioeconomic layers.
1.4.1. Pro: Our system of Government was set up with the belief that every citizen living in America would own an equal peace of land, including the water, not any one person, State, or Corporation could own it all. To make sure we all got a fair share of this wealth, we created a tax system that would force those who wished to get rich to have to pay for that privileged by paying more taxes then the poor and force our Government to care of the less fortunate. So they can never legally own more votes.
1.4.2. Pro: The constitution was written for "we the people" not "we the rich". The rich already have too much power via their companies and voices.
1.5. Pro: Historically, electoral institutions gave rise to earlier adoption of new taxes, such as in [Saxony and Prussia](http://www.didacqueralt.com/germany_it.pdf) between 1872 and 1912.
1.5.1. Pro: Being able to more quickly adopt new taxes allows for more market mechanisms to cope with negative externalities rather than government regulation, such as a carbon tax rather than carbon limits.
1.6. Con: Wealthy people are disconnected from the realities of life in lower class of society, in this case the majority, which would make their decisions more prone to decreasing overall quality of life in a country.
1.6.1. Con: The wealthy rely on the lower and middle classes to work for them; buy their products; etc. They therefore have incentives to make benevolent decisions lest unrest and inequality begins to cause harm to the economy.
1.6.1.1. Con: Child labor in the 1918's. Woman's suffrage laws. Slavery laws. Even minimum wage requirements had to be forced in 1938. These came about because because the rich and powerful had to be forced to concede each situation was wrong. History by such seems to indicate more than a few will do what they can get away with till they are called on it. This proposal would limit anyone restraining them even the good hearted rich opposed to such.
1.7. Pro: Since people who are taxed highly would gain the power to reduce their taxes even against a numerical majority, this measure would create a system that limits the growth of government and its encroachment on personal liberty.
1.8. Pro: This would acknowledge the existing power of wealth affecting elections and elected officials. The system would be more transparent and money used for bribes would find better use.
1.8.1. Con: This is not necessarily true; arguably, when money becomes the root of the electoral system, corruption would be ever more likely as people 'buy votes' and bribe those who have more money.
1.9. Con: Wealthy people already enjoy more influence through their ability to affect votes and opinions through political donations. Increasing the number of votes would amplify their impact on society exponentially.
1.9.1. Pro: This is literally by definition a mechanism to ensure inequality. Even worse is the fact that wealth would be used as the deciding factor regarding the reliability and accountability of voting entities.
1.10. Con: This will result in the wealth gap between the rich and the poor to keep increasing: if the rich get more lobbying power it would be possible for the rich to drive legislation that promotes their economic status at the cost of lower classes.
1.10.1. Pro: The same is true at an individual level when a politician tries to get more votes by giving favours to the rich than trying to help the poor.
1.11. Pro: Wealthy people are less likely to move to tax havens \(optimize taxes\) and more likely to return from them.
1.11.1. Pro: People who have money in tax havens have so much money that moving back home from tax havens would not impact their life standards at all.
1.11.2. Pro: Wealthy people want to have another thing they can buy and feel extraordinary.
1.11.2.1. Con: This seems unnecessarily biased against wealthy individuals; it is more than just a superficial interest.
1.11.3. Con: Voting rights increases are not interesting or useful enough for wealthy people to spend millions on getting them.
1.11.3.1. Con: This is patently untrue. Many wealthy people are deeply interested and invested in politics, and so on voting.
1.11.4. Con: Many wealthy people will not have fully renounced their original citizenships; but have instead made other financial and tax arrangements in those havens. It is likely most could vote anyway without having to repatriate their wealth.