Discussion Title: Should Nations exist?

1. Can the world exist without boundaries and nations?
1.1. Con: Governing the world as a single entity will be near about impossible. Vast sections of society might never get their needs represented.
1.2. Con: No. The world needs nations and borders and would always have them in some way. Just like people are separated by their homes. Humanity would end up much worse in the long run. What would happen? Constant migration of lower IQ populations to high IQ populations which would destroy those populations and make things worse. There is consistent evidence of this all over the western world. Low IQ open borders people are just repeating what their quack professors tell them. No research.
1.2.1. Con: IQ scores are not significant predictors of behavior. Behavior is a product of a complex interaction between physical environments, subjective norms, and perceived behavioral control. Intelligence does influence some of these factors, but is not the sole explanation for behavior patterns.
1.3. Pro: National borders as they exist reinforce poles of political and economic power, while marginalizing peripheral nations.
1.4. Con: The world can exist without the nation state, as it did for eons before the Westphalian system was normalized. However, administration and management of systems of the physical environment are only possible through the creation, i.e. definition, of system boundaries.
1.5. Pro: The world is slowly but surely already moving in this direction. Soon the population of global nomads will be sizable enough to need a separate identity not linked to a nation.
1.5.1. Pro: Regionalisation is a process currently underway in many states.
1.5.1.1. Pro: [Catalonia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catalan_independence) strives to become independent.
1.5.1.2. Pro: There is a [Scottish indpendence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scottish_independence)movement.
1.5.1.3. Pro: [Kosovo](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-18328859) was successful in breaking free from Serbia in 2008.
1.5.2. Pro: A process of [Europeanisation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Europeanisation) is moving the bureaucracies of EU member states closer together.
1.6. Pro: False sense of nationalism has caused enough war and destruction to mankind. It is imperative for the survival of humanity that nations are abolished
1.7. Con: Unchecked immigration will lead to population imbalance. People will want to migrate to developed parts of the world, while developing parts will suffer from shortages
1.8. Con: Chances of an authoritarian regime with no counter balance, ruling over all of humanity becomes a real risk
1.8.1. Con: Governmental apparatus allow for opposition even in an authoritarian state.
1.8.1.1. Pro: In the authoritarian state of wartime Japan, the navy and the army checked each other's power.
1.9. Pro: Global measures such as universal basic income, universal healthcare and education can be better implemented thereby improving basic living conditions of all humans
1.9.1. Con: Without state units to implement policies there is a significant [one-size-fits-all](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_size_fits_all) problem.
1.10. Pro: Without the need to defend each country and its border, huge amounts of resources can be freed up that can be put to better use such as for funding healthcare and education
1.10.1. Con: Non-state actors do already pose a risk and threat, such as ISIS.
1.11. Con: Abolishing countries will result in uncontrolled chaos. We would end up fighting another world war and recreating boundaries \(We would just end up with changed boundaries\)
1.11.1. Pro: The power vaccuum left open by an end to the state will be used by those who move the quickest and the most roughless.