Discussion Title: Should The 'Poor' Be A Protected Equality Group?

1. The "Poor" should be a protected equality group.
1.1. Pro: To be represented in a society you need financial resources. That's why poor people are not represented enough in our democracy and should be considered especially as an equality group.
1.1.1. Con: One does not need to pay to vote, they have an equal vote and therefore equal representation.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Voting is a right to which every authentic citizens or citizen equivalent groups possess. Even though, the poor may not have equipment and means to realize the right to voting. They may lack information about parties' political agendas and transportation to get to the voting place.
1.1.2. Pro: To be 'adequately and fairly' represented in matters of law you need financial resources or legal support.
1.1.2.1. Con: Generally the quality of subsidised legal support is commonly of low quality and not readily available.
1.2. Con: Creating the poor as a protected equality group excuses the existence of poverty.
1.2.1. Pro: Providing protection for the poor will create more poor people in search of protection. Especially if by government.
1.2.1.1. Con: In general poor people have more health problems, more psychological problems and experience more stress. Being a protected group will not make these problems disappear. Being poor will still be experienced as a negative position that people don't want to be in.
1.2.1.2. Con: Poverty is caused by a substantial lack of resources, this is something many modern society's can solve simply by distributing resources more equally.
1.2.2. Con: On the contrary, marking the poor as an equality group draws attention to them as a group in need of protection. Extending protection to people of different sexuality did not excuse the harsh treatment of such people, in fact it criminalized it. A similar situation would occur if the poor were made a protected group
1.3. Con: A poor social class is an inconvenient reality of a properly functioning socio-economic hierarchy. Societies need to focus on providing equality of opportunity, not equality of outcome.
1.3.1. Con: While it is true that socio-economic hierarchies are inevitable, that doesn't mean that they shouldn't be challenged in order to avoid The gap between rich and poor becoming too steep. There is no mention in the premise of how this ought to be done \(it does not say that equality of outcome is the correct method\). If the 'poor' was a protected equality group, there's no reason why equality of opportunity could not be pursued.
1.4. Con: Identifying poor people as an equality group may galvanize the non-poor against them.
1.4.1. Pro: Those identifying people as "The Poor", imply they have a degree of superiority and reinforce inequality.
1.4.2. Pro: The backlash from non-poor groups could make things worse for poor individuals than the original problem.
1.4.3. Con: For every attempt to change the status quo, there is always a resistance to it as big as the change itself. Therefore the risk \(or fear\) of backlash of ones shouldn't demote the others from trying to make the world a little bit more fair.
1.4.4. Pro: Enforcing protection globally to the approximately 10% of people who live in poverty would result in the contravention of international laws via significant war and conflict. \([World Bank Poverty Overview](http://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/poverty/overview)\)
1.5. Con: Poverty is too complex a problem to protect the poor as an equality group.
1.5.1. Pro: Too broad a sword. The poor are made up of sub-social groups, those who can not make ends meet, those who can not work because of physical disabilities \( though there are services to the people if the service was widely known\) Those who refuse to work such as junkies and alcoholics.
1.5.1.1. Con: All of these people have one thing in common - they are poor. Protecting them as a class and allocating government resources and attention to their welfare would benefit all the groups mentioned.
1.5.2. Con: The complexity of the problem does not entail that the protection should not be extended to the poor, but only that the protection itself should be nuanced and adapted to the various differing needs of different poor populations.
1.6. Con: All human beings are born equal, the State shouldn't interfer with naturality.
1.6.1. Pro: When you 'protect' a specific group of people they are no longer equal.
1.6.1.1. Con: Protection only means they are safe-guarded against a certain threat. If this threat does not exist for the other group than this is a step towards equality.
1.6.1.2. Con: 'Protecting' a group is often deemed necessary because of a lack of equality to begin with.
1.6.1.2.1. Con: The reasons why an individual is poor are very different. To represent all the different people who are poor because of different socio-economic factors is not possible with a simple Equality Group.
1.6.1.2.1.1. Con: They do however face similar challenges. It is already a United Nations Sustainable Development Goal for a reason.
1.6.1.2.2. Con: People appointing themselves as society's overseers with various social engineering plans of who needs protecting and what kind of protecting they need are serving their own interests, whether they realize it or not.
1.6.1.3. Pro: 'Protecting' a group can stigmatise them socially.
1.6.1.3.1. Con: The poor are already stigmatized. Protecting them is an attempt to reduce this.
1.6.1.3.2. Pro: Treating people like children in need of special protections serves the interests of the protector, not the protectee.
1.6.1.4. Pro: Equality is a lie. No two people on earth are equal - in desires, in abilities, in efforts. Everyone on earth is a unique individual, and therefore important. So equality of outcome can never be attained.
1.6.2. Con: Human beings are not born equal - they are born into households of differing socioeconomic status, with different privileges and opportunities, and with different natural talents. It is the role of the state to create the equality that is not present at birth.
1.6.3. Pro: Classification of people would discriminate by unevenly giving some people privileged status over others. Practical and individual actions matter more than theoretical possibilities.
1.7. Con: Protected classes should be reserved for characteristics that are immutable. One's poverty level is not immutable.
1.7.1. Con: There exist other protected classes are not all based on immutable characteristics. Religion, for example, is a protected class. One's sexual orientation can also change, as can \(arguably\) one's gender. These are all examples of protected classes based on mutable characteristics.
1.7.2. Con: It is not clear why people should be protected by the law only if they are in some situation they cannot change. The purpose of the law is to protect people in all situations, and to help create a world where they do not require protection.
1.8. Pro: There are societal structures that inherently discriminate against the success and dignity of poor people. College admissions boards favorably rank applicants with AP credit and national/local program involvement, while employers favorably rank workers with internship experience, prior work history, and impressive references. These opportunities are limited to poor people.
1.9. Pro: Governments will be forced to consider the impact of policies on the most vulnerable in society.
1.9.1. Con: Governments shouldn't have to be 'forced' to take care of the less fortunate, it should be built-in to everyone's consciousness to take care of their poor.
1.9.2. Pro: [Cronyism](https://www.heritage.org/poverty-and-inequality/report/big-government-policies-hurt-the-poor-and-how-address-them) is one way government policies, often created to help workers, end up helping authority figures with special political interests. As a protected group, cronyism would have to be stopped.
1.9.2.1. Con: Cronyism can manifest in many complex ways, like giving out government benefits to select low-income groups through programs run by political allies. Laws like this could create just as many opportunities for cronyism as they close.
1.9.3. Pro: [Energy and environmental policies](https://www.heritage.org/poverty-and-inequality/report/big-government-policies-hurt-the-poor-and-how-address-them) distort prices, driving up costs for gas and electricity for poorer families. As a protected group, this kind of unequal inflation is curtailed.
1.9.4. Pro: As a protected group, the political concerns of the poor will be better heard and addressed because not doing so will bring consequences.
1.9.5. Con: There are already government policies in place and proposed to reduce poverty, thus they are already a consideration.
1.9.5.1. Con: Just because policy is in place, it does not mean it can not be improved.
1.9.6. Con: This could result in governments being legally required to institute economically harmful policies that sacrifice national well-being and the long-term interests of the poor for the immediate interests of the poor.
1.9.7. Con: It would make legislating a more complex and bureaucratic process, which reduces democratic participation and contributes the opaqueness of the political system.
1.9.7.1. Con: Protecting marginalized people prevents privileged groups from silencing underprivileged groups.
1.10. Pro: Persistent [inter-generational poverty](http://www.socialwatch.org/node/16324) proves that being poor discriminates against certain individuals.
1.10.1. Pro: Ethnic minorities are disproportionately affected by poverty from generation to generation.
1.10.1.1. Pro: Generational poverty is [consistently higher](https://talkpoverty.org/2014/06/27/generational-poverty-exception-not-rule/) for Black and Latino Americans than any other racial group.
1.10.1.2. Con: There are already groups that protect ethnic minorities the kind of discrimination contributing to their poverty.
1.10.1.2.1. Pro: The[NAACP](http://www.naacp.org/issues/economic-opportunity/) is such an organization put in place to protect Black Americans from discrimination, including economic poverty.
1.11. Pro: Protecting the poor would positively impact future generations in the areas of health, economics and education.
1.11.1. Con: Best historical results have been achieved by not "protecting" poor, but rather enabling them to freely participate in markets.
1.11.2. Pro: Children born into poverty have worse life chances and educational outcomes.
1.11.2.1. Con: Giving people money often doesn't lift them out of poverty. Poverty is as much a mindset as it is a physical condition. Therefore it is perhaps more important to ensure education programs are grounded in philosophy, principle, moral and ethics as they are in language, arts and science.
1.11.2.2. Pro: The [largest population](http://www.nccp.org/media/releases/release_34.html) of poor in the US are children. As minors, they deserve protection under the law.
1.11.2.2.1. Pro: Approximately 1 in 5 children[live in](https://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/publication/65766/2000369-Child-Poverty-and-Adult-Success.pdf) poverty, in comparison to 1 in 8 adults.
1.11.2.3. Pro: Low income students are [4 times more likely](https://www.scilearn.com/blog/ten-facts-about-how-poverty-impacts-education) to drop out of high school, including those who are academically proficient.
1.11.3. Pro: Mental health issues [persist](https://www.samhsa.gov/data/sites/default/files/report_2720/Spotlight-2720.html) among the poor. Without certain economical disparages, they would be accepted for proper health care.
1.11.3.1. Con: The depression suffered as a result for ones socio-economic status is not a mental illness but a normal response to the situation. However prolonged exposure facilitated by providing minimal welfare and without education, could prolong and exacerbate the condition.
1.11.3.2. Pro: Studies show financial inequality is the root cause of homicide -- and by extension, revolution. [www.theguardian.com](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/dec/08/income-inequality-murder-homicide-rates)
1.11.4. Pro: The poor lack basic needs like food, housing, clothing, and education which are implied in the constitutional right to "Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness".
1.11.4.1. Con: This right does not lay claim on material assets of others. It keeps others from laying claim on your life, your liberty and your pursuit of happiness.
1.11.4.2. Con: This right to life is only granted under the United States principles. This does not apply to poor in other countries.
1.11.5. Pro: In the US, poverty can be measured by race, i.e. Blacks 27%, Latinos 26%, Whites 10%. If you believe education is the key to upward mobility, then we need free education for everyone. [stateofworkingamerica.org](http://stateofworkingamerica.org/fact-sheets/poverty/)
1.11.5.1. Con: The Detroit Public Schools Community District spends $14,259 per student, this amount is higher than all but eight of the nation’s 100 largest school districts. The district still generated the nation’s worst reading scores among low-income students. This evidence serves to provide reasonable counter to your claim free education resolves poverty. [www.michigancapitolconfidential.com](https://www.michigancapitolconfidential.com/detroit-schools-spend-more-educate-less-than-other-us-urban-districts)
1.12. Con: Private individuals have a moral right to discriminate as an extension of their right to free association.
1.12.1. Con: Numerous laws all over the globe attest to the falsehood of this claim by criminalizing discriminatory activity against various groups. As examples, take US laws on workplace discrimination and the [UN Equality and Human Rights Comission.](https://www.equalityhumanrights.com/en/equality-act/protected-characteristics)
1.13. Con: Achieving a practical and acceptable definition of "poor" will be difficult.
1.13.1. Con: Poverty is generally described in financial terms. Unlike gender or race, it is possible to define it in numerical values.
1.13.1.1. Con: There are many other factors to considering a group poor, including access to resources such as health care and education.
1.13.1.2. Pro: The [US Census Bureau](https://www.census.gov/topics/income-poverty/poverty/guidance/poverty-measures.html) uses a set of income thresholds to computer poverty, including, but not limited to earnings, unemployment compensation, and social security. All of which are monetary amounts.
1.13.1.3. Con: Perceived poverty varies greatly by region: Asia, Africa, China, Europe, Latin and North America have a variety of substantial differences over a variety of topics.
1.13.2. Pro: Choosing the right measure will be contentious and subjective, as poverty can be measured in relative or absolute terms.
1.13.2.1. Pro: For example, absolute global poverty might be "earns under $1 a day", or $2, or more, while relative poverty may be an amount in comparison to certain demographics.
1.13.3. Pro: In addition to financial definitions of poverty, the discussion topic also includes social dimensions of poverty such as access to education. This further complicates defining 'poor'.
1.14. Con: Poverty, and the threat of it, is a crucial economic incentive. Without it we would all be poorer.
1.14.1. Con: Not having people dying and starving to death on the streets is a public good.
1.14.2. Pro: Poverty carries necessary economic benefits for a country.
1.14.2.1. Pro: If wealth was distributed more evenly, most people would have less resources, meaning less consumers in the marketplace which drives a country forward.
1.14.2.1.1. Pro: Under an even distribution, it is likely that luxury buys would decrease since less resources would be available.
1.14.2.1.2. Con: Consumers drive a marketplace forward, they do not drive a country forward. People are more than members of a marketplace, and arguably their role in that market does them great harm. So even should the evenness of wealth lead to less consumption, this would not necessarily be a bad thing.
1.14.2.1.3. Con: This is not necessarily true and depends on the income distribution of the country as well as the way that income is redistributed to alleviate poverty.
1.14.2.1.4. Con: Even if people had fewer resources as this claim asserts, this would not affect he number of consumers in the marketplace. Indeed if more even distribution brings the bottom portion of the population out of poverty, this actually increases the number of consumers with disposable income, even if the average person has less.
1.14.2.1.5. Con: In the United States, there are [540 billionaires](https://www.forbes.com/sites/katiesola/2016/03/05/here-are-the-states-with-the-most-billionaires/) and [11 million millionaires](https://www.cnbc.com/2017/03/24/a-record-number-of-americans-are-now-millionaires-new-study-shows.html) making up the top 3%. The math shows that if wealth was distributed more evenly, 97% of people \(i.e. most people\) would have more resources.
1.14.3. Con: There is no evidence for this claim. Further more, [alleviating poverty with direct cash payments to the poor does not disincentivize work.](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2015/11/20/9764324/welfare-cash-transfer-work)
1.14.4. Con: The suggestion of 'protecting the poor' as defined in this discussion would not necessarily reduce \(on indeed eliminate\) the threat or prevalence of poverty. It only formalises in law the requirement not to discriminate against the poor.
1.14.4.1. Pro: Law might not translate to reduction of poverty because it is not adhered to.
1.14.4.2. Pro: Law might not translate to reduction/elimination of poverty or threat of poverty because the equal opportunity afforded to the poor may not translate into better outcomes, e.g. despite laws against gender discrimination, there is still a gender pay gap.
1.15. Pro: Protecting the poor will protect the monetary system itself by keeping the poor involved in playing the money game.
1.15.1. Pro: By not protecting the poor, the rich are vulnerable to a potential economic revolution, or the end of money.
1.15.2. Con: The monetary system is not backed by number of participants, rather on transactions. Less players does not necessarily mean less transactions. \([en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equation_of_exchange)\).
1.16. Con: In the USA, the Constitution provides equal rights and protection for all citizens already.
1.16.1. Con: Although legally factual, there are instances of it not being enforced.
1.16.2. Con: The Constitution actually says very little about equality; the only relevant section is in the [14th amendment](https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/amendmentxiv), which promises all people 'equal protection of the laws', which may be prone to different interpretations.
1.16.3. Con: Constitution was drafted under the following context 1790's immigration/naturalization law states: ["immigrants who were free White persons of good character. It thus excluded American Indians, indentured servants, slaves, free blacks and later Asians, although free blacks were allowed citizenship at the state level in certain states."](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naturalization_Act_of_1790)
1.17. Pro: Discrimination against those from poor backgrounds would be reduced by legal protection.
1.17.1. Pro: Young people are not as financially established as adults, yet they should be treated equally when borrowing from the bank, for example.
1.17.1.1. Con: This would reduce the incentive to build up credit through responsible borrowing practices, which would have a myriad of negative second and third order effects over time.
1.17.1.2. Con: Not giving loans to people who can't pay them back is not discrimination, they are higher risks and therefore bad investments.
1.17.2. Pro: As an equality group, employers will have a legal obligation to consider the living standards of their employees when setting wages, benefits and working conditions.
1.17.2.1. Con: Possibly unenforcable if coded into law. An employee is under no obligation to tell an employer the state of their finances or home life. If they do, the employer can't be said to retain their own right to refuse to hire them. It could be comparable to moral extortion.
1.17.3. Con: This would be too cumbersome a process, as there are over [45 million people](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/09/16/poverty-household-income_n_5828974.html) living in poverty in the US alone.
1.17.4. Con: There is no evidence that discrimination against the poor is universally harmful or unjustified. There are many valid reasons to discriminate based on income, like when assessing a person's creditworthiness, evaluating the suitability of a romantic partner, and assessing a party as a potential business partner.
1.17.4.1. Con: The [Economic times](https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/definition/poverty-trap) describes the “poverty trap” which keeps poor people poor if there are no systems to help them out of the poverty.