Discussion Title: Should law and morality be related and have regarded for each other?

1. Should law and morality be related and have regard for each other?
1.1. Con: Moral views are constantly changing and this would impose a significant burden on organs of the State to keep the law up to date.
1.1.1. Con: Laws need to be kept up-to-date anyway to deal with technological developments. Those developments are necessarily attended with new questions of morality.
1.1.2. Con: The burden isn't great, especially in democratic nations, because the law-making bodies and judicial systems will update those laws naturally as new realms of thought and philosophy develop.
1.1.2.1. Con: However, it does take time for cases to reach superior courts for binding precedents to be set. Further, would it impose an unfair burden on law-making bodies to have to keep up to date with changing views when their attention may be needed with other issues?
1.2. Pro: Laws very often touch upon moral issues, such as abortion. In those cases laws should be moral.
1.2.1. Pro: Having morality in the law for issues such as abortion allows for legal creativity. For example, in [Royal College of Nursing v DHSS \(1981\)](http://www.e-lawresources.co.uk/Royal-College-of-Nursing-v-DHSS.php), the court held nurses could carry out abortions - allowing creativity in the law in terms of keeping up with changing moral views and the necessity of safe and accessible abortions.
1.2.2. Con: Morality is subjective; and when it comes to issues such as abortion, peoples' viewpoints are based off of different moral compasses. It is therefore difficult to judge which moral compass the law should conform to.
1.2.2.1. Pro: This is actually shown perfectly well in the abortion debate. One party calls itself pro-life and the other pro-choice; can you really say you are against the right to live or against the right to choose? It ends up with which right you weigh more and that is completely subjective.
1.3. Pro: Supporters of natural law sees law and morals as interlinked. A valid law would be one based on morality as it comes from a higher source - God or nature.
1.4. Con: Too much connection between law and morality may lead to the imposition of morals that have no real practical/pragmatic support.
1.4.1. Pro: One example is the imposition of morals regarding sex, such as laws promoting "abstinence only" education and anti-LGBT laws and policies.
1.4.1.1. Con: The problem in those cases is that abstinence only education and anti-LGBT laws are actually immoral. They also have more to do with religion than with ethics.
1.5. Pro: There is no point in immoral laws.
1.5.1. Pro: An immoral law need not be obeyed.
1.5.1.1. Pro: This was a view taken up by [Martin Luther King, Jr.](https://www.africa.upenn.edu/Articles_Gen/Letter_Birmingham.html) during the era of the civil rights movements.
1.5.1.2. Con: Regardless of morality, a society that disobeys its laws invites chaos and anarchy.
1.5.1.2.1. Con: Sometimes a society must disobey its laws because they are so immoral as to create or invite harm to society's members.
1.6. Con: Supporters of positivism sees the law and morality as separate. The validity of a law should not depend on whether it is good or bad. If it has been made correctly, it should be followed.
1.6.1. Con: [Ronald Dworkin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ronald_Dworkin) contends that the very distinction between facts and values in the legal domain, between what the law is and what it ought to be, is much more blurred than Legal Positivism would have it.
1.6.2. Con: Determining what the law is in particular cases inevitably depends on moral-political considerations about what it ought to be.
1.6.3. Con: Evaluative judgments, about the content law ought to have or what it ought to prescribe, partly determine what the law actually is.
1.7. Con: Good law is objective, dispationate, collective and universal.  Morality is subjective, emotional, and circumstantial. A moral choice must always consider the law but is not necessarily bound by law. No law could encompass every moral consideration or personal code of ethics. Morality requires a positive assertion of right and wrong, absent law. Fear of sanction does not absolve moral burden. Many of history’s most moral figures were found guilty of serious crimes: Socrates, Jesus, Thoreau, etc
1.7.1. Con: Ethics is about the evaluation of human actions. The law is implicitly a evaluation of actions. If something is in a sense "bad" you will be punished by the law. Even if law makers are trying to stay as neutral as possible there will always be an evaluational component to any law. It forbids one thing because it evaluates it as bad to some degree.
1.7.2. Con: Not necessarily. For example there are some cases where the circumstances regarding a situation influence the law. I use as reference the crime of murder. Some would think that murder is in any circumstances wrong because you are taking someone's life but a person can be given a lesser sentence if the crime was not planned and/or done with the intent to kill or cause harm. A person can be completely exonerated if it was self defense.
1.8. Con: No. Different people have different personal morals and different collective morals \(religions, cults, social norms etc.\).  As everyone has their own morals then everyone would need their own laws.
1.8.1. Con: People often share or come to share certain moral values- when these values are sufficiently common, they can be enacted.
1.8.2. Pro: Its true that morality itself is personally subjective, but law is all the parts that a given society agree upon by majority \(democracy\), specifically regarding actions and behaviour \(there are no laws against thoughts\). So theoretically, anyone's actions that sit outside of that legal scope is considered amoral and the criminal justice system takes over. In this way, personal morality isn't a factor; the legal system doesn't concern itself with whether a criminal thinks what they did is okay.
1.9. Pro: The law should try to reflect a society's views and so there must be a close link between both.
1.9.1. Pro: In democratic nations, the law will do this anyway as the people and/or their representatives change.
1.9.1.1. Pro: Laws emerge from the fact of living in societies and would have absolutely no meaning if you were the only sentient being in the universe.
1.9.2. Pro: The law can be used to influence the public's morality to bring about change which is viewed as necessary for the growth of society.
1.9.2.1. Con: Education is more efficient for that.
1.9.2.1.1. Pro: Education is proactive, you make people understand the "why" \(moral necessity\) of the law whereas enforcement of the law is repressive.
1.9.2.2. Con: It would not be moral to use the law to influence the public's  morality.
1.9.2.2.1. Pro: It would be coercion
1.9.2.2.2. Con: That would still be a moral choice, so law and morality would nonetheless be related and have regard for each other.
1.9.3. Con: There are societies that currently view albinos to be "magical" and "evil" and thus deserve to die. This enforced as law would be immoral.
1.10. Pro: With objective morality \(i.e. following an objective standard: "Human Life and Flourishing"\) it becomes possible to create laws that promote human life by protecting individual rights.
1.11. Pro: Laws are the manifestation of morals. Laws have their origin from a set of morals that are approved by the respective country, state, city, etc.
1.11.1. Pro: Laws ARE moral judgments in nature... It's like asking if water should be wet.
1.11.1.1. Con: Laws are often immoral. Slavery was legal in many codes but never moral. Some states’ legal codes are morally superior to other states.  Canadian law, for example, is morally superior to North Korean law. Law and morality, therefore, are not necessarily complementary.
1.11.1.1.1. Con: The moral basis on which laws may be founded can be wrongly asserted \(as it was with slavery\), that's why laws can change and in fact are changing all the time... But it doesn't change the fact that laws are moral judgments, whether correctly or incorrectly asserted.
1.11.1.1.1.1. Con: It could be argued that some laws have little moral connection. For example, is it particularly morally wrong to drive down the motorway at 75mph?
1.11.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Morality relates to the intent of the law, here it's the protection of the public from high speed driving causing harm.  Not the actual value of the speed.
1.11.1.1.2. Con: They are not "complementary" but contingent on each other... Laws can only emerge from a moral landscape \(a given ethical system\). They \(laws\) are the imperative practical expression of a moral truth in a given ethical system.
1.11.1.2. Con: A law does not manifest itself as a morally correct judgement every-time. An issue viewed from the prism of morality always has two sides to it. Morality depends on individual as a unit. I consider eating cooked flesh as immoral. If a law dictates contrary to this, will a law be morally correct from my perspective?
1.12. Con: The law should prohibit conduct which is considered to harm the greater good of society - regardless of whether the conduct is moral or not.
1.12.1. Con: Basing the law on what harms society is inherently a moral stance, based on the moral system of utilitarianism.
1.13. Pro: Laws will be always be influenced by morality, and vice versa.
1.14. Con: It's not the law's position to dictate how people should feel about certain issues and influence the public's morality
1.14.1. Con: It's the other way around...  Laws exist in the first place because people feel certain ways about certain issues.
1.14.1.1. Con: However there are examples such as the [Equality Act 2010](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2010/15/contents) which aimed to change or influence people's viewpoint on things such as race, gender and age discrimination to name a few.
1.14.1.1.1. Con: Viewpoints \(or opinions\) are not objectively equal to each other in the context of Morality.
1.14.2. Con: Laws do not relate to what people may or may not "feel" but what they may or may not "do".
1.14.2.1. Pro: In the context of "moral laws" there is a meaning of "must do" too \(ought\) but feelings are either way not concerned.