Discussion Title: Should countries boycott next year's Eurovision Song Contest in Israel?

1. Countries should boycott next year's Eurovision Song Contest in Israel.
1.1. Con: Art and politics should remain separate, and considerations about politics should not interfere with art.
1.1.1. Con: Art is highly political. Many of the most important artists included social and political critiques in their artworks.
1.2. Pro: Politics would more than likely be used in the contest next year in Israel, which is against the rules of the contest.
1.3. Con: Eurovision is about collectiveness and coming together as a whole. Boycotting is the opposite of that.
1.4. Pro: The Eurovision is about celebrating. Israel does not offer an appropriate stage for that.
1.4.1. Pro: Israel has committed numerous human rights violations. This is not an appropriate context for celebration.
1.4.1.1. Con: The Eurovision Song Contest was held in [Azerbaijan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Azerbaijan_in_the_Eurovision_Song_Contest) before. There are significant human rights violations there but no boycott.
1.4.1.2. Con: Israel doesn't perform badly in terms of human righs violations and it is classified as [free or mostly free](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_freedom_indices#List_by_country).
1.4.1.2.1. Con: The state of freedom within Israel does not tell us much about Israel's conduct towards other peoples, for example the Palestinians.
1.4.2. Pro: People should not be celebrating in Israel while others are suffering, especially in the Palestine-Israel-Gaza rows.
1.4.2.1. Con: Suffering exists in each and every country, for example in the form of poverty. It is impossible to draw a line from which one suffering cannot be tolerated anymore. Suffering should therefore not be a reason for a boycott.
1.4.3. Con: Israel is a modern nation with rich culture, diversity, and traditions. This alone makes it an appropriate stage for a cultural event, regardless of what you think of it's policies.
1.5. Con: Eurovision is about positivity. Boycotting would bring negativity to the contest.
1.6. Pro: If the contest is held in Jerusalem, there will be uproar from both Israel and Palestine about their row over their capital.
1.6.1. Con: Palestines do not participate in the Eurovision Song Contest. They have no stake in it.
1.7. Con: It is an unfair campaign on the actual good people of Israel, as they have done nothing, and they deserve to host the contest if they won it.
1.7.1. Con: The people of Israel carry responsibility for what their government does as they elected it democratically.
1.7.2. Pro: Israel won the Eurovision Song Contest. They have a right to host the Contest in 2019. You can't take that away from them.
1.7.2.1. Pro: Boycotting the event in Israel would open the possibility to boycott it elsewhere for whatever reason. Setting this sort of precedent would highly politicize the event.