Discussion Title: Should Society Accept Men Wearing Dresses/Skirts?

1. Society should accept men wearing dresses/skirts
1.1. Pro: There is no reason to have fashion structured this way in the modern era.
1.1.1. Pro: Fashion has been developing continuously over the 20th Century to include considerably [more androgyny;](https://www.bustle.com/articles/149928-the-evolution-of-androgynous-fashion-throughout-the-20th-century-photos) men in skirts is potentially not a long way from being mainstream.
1.1.2. Pro: Men have [historically](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Men%27s_skirts) worn skirts without issue, it's just a case of it coming back in vogue.
1.2. Pro: People ought to be free to wear what they want without being attacked \(outside of the workplace\).
1.2.1. Pro: Women are free to wear skirts and trousers. It is for the sake of equality that men can wear skirts.
1.2.1.1. Pro: Setting clear boundaries between what men can do, and what women can do, makes transitioning gender very difficult.
1.2.2. Pro: It would create an oppressive and unwelcoming society if individuals felt that it was their right to police what others wore.
1.2.2.1. Con: Society already has multiple norms and traditions. From manners to dress sense, clear boundaries do exist.
1.2.3. Con: There are always going to be certain social restrictions on what is considered wearable. In the same way that 'goths' will attract a certain degree of social condemnation, fashions like men wearing skirts will do the same.
1.2.3.1. Con: It is not clear that this is the right way for society to react. The superficial judgement of goths places some vulnerable people in an even more precarious [position](https://www.newscientist.com/article/dn8996-goth-subculture-may-protect-vulnerable-children/).
1.2.4. Pro: There is simply no need for society to interfere in an individual's completely harmless choice of clothing.
1.2.4.1. Pro: Basic freedom includes generally having a choice in what to wear.
1.2.4.2. Pro: A man who chooses to wear a dress or skirt does not harm anyone by doing so.
1.3. Pro: This would help transgender people blend in throughout society, allowing them to face less discrimination.
1.3.1. Con: Transgender people would want to 'pass' as their opposite gender, not be relegated to 'men in skirts'; the important aspect of their gender presentation is to be considered, fundamentally, female.
1.3.1.1. Con: Regardless, undermining the idea that it is acceptable to judge others based on how they conform to gender stereotypes would help to decrease stigma and oppression.
1.3.1.2. Con: Many trans people only desire to "pass" because it is often unsafe for them not to. Greater acceptance of 'ambiguous' gender presentation and the relaxing of gender norms creates more freedom for everyone.
1.3.1.3. Con: The fact that some people are unable to understand the difference between wearing clothing associated with a different gender and actually identifying as that gender is neither the problem of trans people nor men in skirts.
1.3.2. Pro: It will more specifically help non-binary and genderfluid individuals avoid condemnation or attacks.
1.4. Con: This topples the traditional and established order of things.
1.4.1. Con: This is a good thing.
1.4.2. Pro: Traditions exist for a reason, and to topple them for something so small is ultimately quite ridiculous.
1.4.2.1. Con: If there is no real value in the tradition, the tradition should be toppled.
1.4.2.2. Con: Gendered clothing is a completely arbitrary product of society, and a more neutral approach does not harm anyone.
1.4.2.3. Con: Is self-expression a small thing? Clothes have long been a part of a person's identity.
1.4.2.4. Con: Keeping tradition for tradition's sake is an effective way to preserve harmful traditions.
1.4.3. Con: People can still choose to wear traditionally 'gendered' clothing if they so desire.
1.4.4. Con: Male skirts/dresses have been used by many ancient peoples and are traditional clothes in some country even now.
1.4.5. Con: Women wearing pants toppled the traditional and established order of things. Women now have a much wider range of clothing options and can participate in activities for which dresses and skirts are not convenient or functional.
1.5. Con: This would feminize men and lead to the destruction of manliness as we know it.
1.5.1. Con: Men have worn skirts and dresses in a large variety of [cultures and societies](https://www.bustle.com/p/the-history-of-men-skirts-58088) in the past: including Ancient Rome, Egypt and Scotland. These societies have maintained masculinity.
1.5.1.1. Pro: For many, the wearing of such attire is considered in itself a form of masculinity.
1.5.2. Con: [Masculinity is toxic](https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/zmk3ej/all-masculinity-is-toxic).
1.5.2.1. Con: This is a generalisation. Toxic masculinity exists, but not all forms of masculinity are toxic.
1.5.3. Con: This does not appear to be the case, despite many men wearing [skirts](https://www.pinterest.ie/pfohsol/men-wearing-skirts/).
1.5.4. Con: Besides identifying as one, there is no trait that truly makes a person "manly."
1.5.5. Con: This implies that manliness "as we know it" is ineffable or without fault.
1.5.6. Pro: It might, but "manliness" does not need to be so narrowly defined. Masculinity "as we know it" is not always a positive. For example, in many cultures men are socialised to stifle their emotions, hide any vulnerability and not ask for help. This has contributed to higher rates of depression and suicide amongst men.
1.6. Con: This is a clear violation of the Biblical prohibition: “A woman is not to wear male clothing, and a man is not to put on a woman’s garment, for everyone who does these things is detestable to the Lord your God." - Deuteronomy 22:5
1.7. Con: It may change people's perceptions of the men in question who elect to wear skirts.
1.7.1. Con: After a time of acclimatisation one will get used to the sight of men in skirts.
1.7.2. Con: There is no particular reason for this. Men in kilts do not provoke undue concern; other types of skirts should not either.
1.7.3. Con: It may change people's perceptions of skirts and who should wear them.
1.7.4. Pro: It may, but it may change them in a positive way. Men who elect to wear skirt may be intentionally trying to change people's perception of them.
1.7.5. Pro: Consider the fashion implications. In the past and present, dresses are/were worn in: Ancient Europe/ Scotland/ Middle East. It just so happens that male dresses aren't fashionable in the west at the moment, accept it. Fashion isn't changed over a debate. A man wearing a dress might as well be wearing a ruff and cape. Everyone will look at the odd one out no matter what he says.
1.8. Pro: Many societies already do. The assigning of skirts as feminine is completely arbitrary. The question, perhaps, is should society accept men who obviously do not fit our conventional expectations of men.
1.9. Con: Fashion shouldn't have to change for political reasons.
1.10. Pro: Some men just want to look pretty without being labelled LGBT.
1.10.1. Pro: ['Metrosexual' males](https://www.cosmeticsdesign-europe.com/Article/2016/02/04/Metrosexual-beauty-on-the-rise-across-Asia) already exist, although more common in Asia than Europe or America; this can shift if society allows it to.
1.10.2. Con: There is nothing wrong with being LGBTQ+, so it doesn't matter if men are labelled as such.
1.10.2.1. Con: While there is nothing inherently wrong with being labelled LGBTQ+ - it is negative to be mislabelled. Therefore it does matter if particular men are \(wrongly\) labelled LGBTQ+
1.10.3. Pro: Men using skincare products or wearing pink shirts used to result in assumptions about sexuality. What is accepted by society is fluid.
1.11. Pro: Men would be a lot more comfortable this way.
1.11.1. Pro: Men are often [prohibited](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/26/fashion/men-skirts-shorts-dress-code.html) from wearing shorts in more formal settings. When the weather is warm, often men must remain uncomfortable in full-length trousers. If men were allowed to wear skirts or dresses, they could maintain a formal appearance and comfort at the same time.
1.11.2. Con: Skirts are not very comfortable, as anybody who's experienced thigh chafing can testify.
1.11.2.1. Con: Thigh chafing can be easily prevented and does not affect everyone
1.11.3. Pro: Dresses, skirts, and similar clothing allow for greater air flow for critical regions.
1.11.4. Pro: The freedom to wear whatever one feels wishes will help to make men more comfortable regardless which decision they choose.
1.11.5. Pro: From an anatomical perspective, male genitalia are hotter than body temperature and require better ventilation and [likely is why they are external rather than internal.](https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/bering-in-mind/why-do-human-testicles-hang-like-that/) A skirt allows for better ventilation and more viable sperm.
1.11.6. Con: There is no data to suggest this is true. It is merely a claim.