Discussion Title: Should U.S. Transgender Troops be Allowed to Deploy to Combat?

1. U.S. Transgender Troops Should be Allowed to Deploy to Combat.
1.1. Pro: An individual who has already transitioned will not be a burden during combat.
1.2. Pro: Both women and men are deployed to combat.
1.3. Con: The use of transgender soldiers does not inspire fear in an enemy.
1.3.1. Con: Reducing the pool of potential soldiers meeting a performance standard is a reasonable argument to reduce fear in an enemy, not their gender.
1.3.2. Con: It is difficult to distinguish transgender troops from other soldiers.
1.3.3. Con: The gender identity of soldiers has no bearing on how much fear they will inspire in combat. What matters is how effective they are in battle.
1.3.3.1. Pro: If we arm the transgender troops, then they will inspire fear.
1.3.4. Con: Nearly all soldiers today are weapon operators and enemy soldiers are afraid of their weapons, not the soldiers themselves. The gender identity of the weapon operator is irrelevant for the fear these weapons evoke in enemy soldiers.
1.3.5. Con: The U.S. military is one the best armed and trained on the planet, with a military background that inspires fear in many other countries. Gender is not a factor.
1.3.5.1. Con: Until you publicly add transgender, gay or beta males to the Military.
1.3.5.1.1. Con: Not so. everything in the military operates under the chain of command. 'Beta male' is an irrelevant term in the military. You are either in charge or you follow orders, and that is based on rank. The orders are followed when they are given by the one in charge, and that is it.
1.3.5.1.2. Con: Outside of the meaninglessness of "beta males" in the military, gender is never an issue. All that matters is a soldier is willing to follow orders and has met the physical and mental requirements of the Armed Forces.
1.3.5.1.3. Con: This is a somewhat bigoted approach to gender and sexual orientation in the military.
1.3.5.2. Pro: We almost always attack at distance, so it doesn't matter who or what pushes the button.
1.4. Pro: Every American has the right to serve.
1.4.1. Con: Americans with disabilities are routinely banned from combat or military service.
1.4.1.1. Con: Disability and transgenderism are very different things.
1.4.1.2. Pro: The military already prevents people from joining based on [medical conditions.](http://www.military.com/join-armed-forces/disqualifiers-medical-conditions.html)
1.4.1.2.1. Con: Some conditions are minor enough not to prevent service.
1.5. Pro: Gender is irrelevant. If a soldier meets the standards, they should be able to fight for our nation if they choose to do so.
1.6. Con: This could cause logistical problems, such as assigning lodging, showers, and bathrooms.
1.6.1. Con: In CSHs \(Combat Support Hospitals, a field unit\), showers had individual stalls and toilets are separated \(normally port-o-johns\). Soldiers normally sleep in Temper tents. Not a problem to set up one extra. It's literally just a few minutes worth of work.