Discussion Title: Should traditions that harm humans be banned?

1. Traditions should be banned if they are harmful to humans. Example of traditions that harm humans: genital mutilation, or locking up women in underground prisons when they are menstruating.
1.1. Pro: If a tradition leaves you or others with a scar, it cannot be acceptable or legal.
1.2. Pro: Traditions should not be untouchable. Letting them be so is irrational.
1.3. Pro: Some traditions may cause death.
1.4. Pro: If they are not banned, the authorities allowing such practices are complicit.
1.4.1. Pro: If they are not banned, there's this tacit "social" agreement that anything, including torture and murder, is acceptable if it's part of a culture or religion.
1.5. Con: The state cannot get involved in judging the level of ethics in any given culture or religion.
1.5.1. Pro: People just can't seem to ever agree on this issue. It is politically difficult to pull off a ban like that.
1.5.1.1. Con: Difficulty in enforcing a measure is not a definitive reason not to carry it out.
1.5.2. Con: On almost all models of political [sovereignty](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sovereignty), governments do have the right to ban some actions, especially if they are harmful to society, others or oneself.
1.5.3. Con: The state is the reflection of citizens' values and demands, therefore if the majority decided that a tradition is immoral, the state will ban it.
1.5.3.1. Pro: The state is the representative of citizens; it does not exist as an autonomous institution that creates new values out of the blue.
1.6. Pro: It would be a giant step forward for feminism.
1.7. Pro: Some traditions are the result of our ancestors' ignorance.
1.8. Con: Banning certain traditions would create more dangerous divisions in society.
1.8.1. Pro: Banning certain traditions would create more tensions with religious fundamentalists.
1.8.1.1. Con: The difficulty in implementing a measure is not a reason not to do so if it is largely beneficial.
1.9. Pro: Banning certain traditions would make the world a better and safer place to live.
1.9.1. Pro: Banning unethical traditions would make the world as a whole more coherent.
1.9.2. Con: The backlash against the ban could make the world unsafer.
1.9.3. Pro: if we want our society to elvolve and be more peaceful, we must have respect for any life. This means that harm should be banned, even if it is a tradition. We have the right and the power to change the way we act, for a better world.
1.10. Pro: Some traditional practices are inhumane.
1.10.1. Pro: [Female genital mutilation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Female_genital_mutilation) \(FGM\) is inhumane.
1.10.2. Pro: [Child marriage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Child_marriage) is inhumane.
1.11. Con: People should do whatever they want.
1.11.1. Con: In most societies people's freedoms are regulated when they collide with other's freedoms.
1.11.2. Con: There are traditions that harm humans even if they don't want to or force them to do what they don't want to do.
1.12. Con: We should respect other people's religious views, and banning some of their traditions would be disrespectful.
1.12.1. Con: Human rights should prevail over religious views.