Discussion Title: Should we Have a 100% Inheritance Tax?

1. There should be a 100% inheritance tax on all inherited wealth above 1 million Euros.
1.1. Pro: It is not fair, that some who were lucky to be born into rich families, start their lives with a tremendous amounts of assets, while others have none.
1.1.1. Pro: Ultimately one of the greatest sources of economic and social inequality in modern society is money passed from parents to children.
1.1.1.1. Con: If it were only money, or money was the essential factor, then lottery winners and other beneficiaries of financial windfalls should be able to hold on to their wealth as well. However, [many](http://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/mega-lottery-winners-sound-advice-article-1.1209336?pgno=1) [do](https://blogs.wsj.com/wealth/2012/03/30/will-winning-the-lottery-ruin-your-life/) [not](http://www.marketwatch.com/story/why-lottery-winners-go-bankrupt-1301002181742).
1.1.1.2. Con: In any group of person always would be a very small group of people that are hyper-productive. That 1% exist in any activity: science, music, sports, business. Always the best will be a small number of people.
1.1.2. Con: It's not fair that some were born smarter than others. That's just the way life is.
1.1.2.1. Con: Everybody should have equal starting conditions. What he/she makes out of life is a different story.
1.1.2.1.1. Con: This is a wish, not an argument. There is no non-esoteric reason for this.
1.1.2.1.2. Pro: Generally speaking we consider some people having an unfair advantage, in this case a head start, to being unfair, so not having equal starting positions is unfair.
1.1.2.1.2.1. Con: It is generally not possible to create perfectly fair outcomes.
1.1.2.1.2.1.1. Con: OF course it is.
1.1.2.1.2.1.2. Con: Even if it is not, this does not mean that we should not strive to doing so.
1.1.2.1.2.1.3. Pro: There is no way to measure fairness.
1.1.2.1.2.2. Con: Equally, it is considered unfair to not allow you to do freely with what you earned, as in eg allowing you to pass it on to your children.
1.1.2.1.3. Con: Life is not fair, tax is not fair, what is 'fair' anyway?
1.1.2.2. Con: At least we can try to do something about it and create more equality than just say 'too bad better luck next life'
1.1.2.3. Con: That' not a viable comparison: being smart is non-influencable aspect of the human condition, being rich an influencable one of human civilization.
1.1.2.4. Con: Also Intelligence is more influenced by socialization, thus education, than by genes.
1.1.2.5. Con: This argument can be used to justify racial inequality. "Some people were born whiter than others. That's just the way life is." What matters is what importance society places on money \(and whiteness\). With money, immense importance.
1.1.3. Pro: Capitalist societies are built upon the idea of meritocracy; that success can be earned through hard work. Inheriting large amounts of money undermines this ideal, as certain people are given a huge advantage over others due to a characteristic \(their parents\) that they did not choose or earn.
1.1.3.1. Con: Meritocracy does not have to be limited to the individual level; a family can earn its success as well. Successful families grow their wealth over generations, whereas families with only one hugely successful individual lose the wealth that individual created in later generations.
1.1.3.2. Con: Inheritance is not solely financial at death. Families provide experiences, education, morals, faith etc which can then affect children’s earning ability and quality of life later in life.
1.1.3.3. Con: If you are financially incompetent, it doesn't matter how much you inherit. Inheritance might reduce the pressure for competence, but it doesn't entirely remove it.
1.1.4. Con: Birth is not a lottery. Individuals are not preexisting entities dropped into a particular set of circumstances \(family, nation, civilization\), but they originate from those circumstances.
1.1.4.1. Pro: An individual is a temporary instantiation of their family, nation and civilization, which persist even though individuals die, and shape their members through their values, beliefs, tradiations, institutions, and material wealth.
1.1.4.2. Pro: An individual is brought into existence by a particular set of circumstances, meaning that any specific individual could not have come into existence at any other place or time or in a different state of affairs than was actually the case.
1.1.5. Con: Every person in the world born in different conditions. Society can't punish the luckiest one, instead it must provide opportunities for the less fortunate to access to high quality resources.
1.1.5.1. Con: Redistributive tax is all about taking from the richer and giving it to the poor. The parent claim would apply to most taxes funding the welfare state, which is outside the scope of this discussion
1.1.6. Con: This restricts basic property rights.
1.1.6.1. Pro: A 100% percent "tax" is not a tax. It is rather expropriation.
1.1.6.1.1. Con: People can still keep anything below 1 Million Euros.
1.1.6.1.2. Pro: It is the job of parents to leave children with more than the parent had; as others parents did for them. To confiscate this wealth is to rob people of their ability to pursue this goal.
1.1.6.2. Con: Property rights belong to a person. It is at least questionable if they should be allowed to be transfered to other persons.
1.1.6.2.1. Con: Part of having ownership or property is the right to transfer it. 
Unless you own your body, how can you decide who you "give" it to? Unless you own your car or your labor, how can you determine who you can sell it to? Unless you own a present, how can you decide who to give it to?
1.1.6.3. Pro: According to the thinker John Locke, every human has fundamental right to their [life, liberty and estates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Locke#Theory_of_value_and_property).
1.1.6.3.1. Con: He also did not believe that people should own more than what they themselves could produce.
1.1.6.4. Pro: Article 39 of Magna Carta 1225 guarantees the right to hold property. Reasonable taxation of that property is not outside the realms of decency; but where large sums are being inherited \(say taking $1bn\) the degree of taxation involved \( leaving only $1m to be inherited\) is highly unreasonable if not outright theft.
1.1.6.5. Pro: That which is inherited has already been taxed - often more than once.
1.1.6.5.1. Pro: There shouldnt be any tax on wealth that has already been earned. When earning money then you earn a specific amount for your job plus the amount that the state earns from your work. If its already earned then it is your property — the basic job of a state is to protect the property of their citizens, not appropriate it.
1.1.6.6. Pro: It is immoral to take money from others by force or threat of force, simply because you are jealous of what they have, or believe you can spend their money more wisely than they can.
1.1.6.7. Con: The "basic rights" on property are already pretty restricted in most countries, as they nearly all countries have inheritance taxes in some form or another.
1.1.6.7.1. Con: -> See 1.1.6.1.
1.1.6.7.2. Con: The fact that there are laws does not prove that those laws are legitimate, or that they do not violate basic rights.
1.1.6.7.3. Con: Adding on wrongs does not make a right.
1.1.6.8. Pro: Such a tax would not respect the legal right to self-determination with regards to one's own wealth.
1.1.6.9. Pro: The state needs to justify taking one's property; not the individual justifying why they should be allowed to keep their property.
1.1.6.9.1. Pro: Individuals can choose to donate the wealth they've earned to charity if they wished it to be distributed for the greater good. Inheritance taxes are simply a means for governments to raise additional revenue.
1.1.6.9.1.1. Pro: If people want to provide for their offspring after their death, they can improve society while they're alive \(fund a school, donate to medical research, donate to the political party that best protect future generation's interests, etc...\). There is no reason why all of us are not worthy of those concerns.
1.1.6.9.1.2. Con: Inheritance taxes are not simply, nor just, a means for raising tax revenue. They are also a fairness mechanism that diminishes one's ability to make use of wealth not worked for.
1.1.6.9.2. Pro: The money you make is your responsibility and you alone should have full control over what will happen to it.
1.1.6.9.3. Con: If any of this happens after one's death, no one is alive for their property rights to be infringed upon. You would be taxing property of a deceased person before it arrives at the person about to inherit it.
1.1.6.10. Pro: Close family members can make financial decisions which are rather in the sense of the deceased than the decisions that may be taken by the state. Family members know a deceased and his or her intentions better than a bureaucrat, politician or statesman. Close family members are more important to a deceased and thus for his or her remaining wealth than an anonymous state system.
1.1.6.10.1. Con: The opinion and intentions of a dead person are not important anymore, because they are dead. They don't need to cope with any of the world's problems anymore and rest in peace.
1.1.6.10.1.1. Con: Their opinions are still valid, that's why you have the last will and to contest the latter you have to go to court to do that.
1.1.6.11. Pro: This would strip work of one of it's most important meanings: Creating a heritage for the future.
1.1.6.12. Pro: A 100% inheritance tax goes to far: it effectively punishes both the parents seeking to leave their children a better future — the hope of every parent — as well as punishing children for their parent's death. While the parents were alive they could determine what benefits their children experienced; they could pay for college or they could not, etc. But once they are dead, the government would step in and deny their parent's wishes simply because they are dead.
1.1.6.13. Pro: Inheritance is a private transfer of ownership. Government has no business taking anything from it.
1.1.6.14. Con: Rights on property can be restricted by law, see 'Enteignung"
1.1.6.14.1. Con: Legality =/= Morality. 

Just because something is legal or has been done does not make it right. 

For instance, would legalizing slavery make it moral?
1.1.6.14.2. Pro: This has already happend several times in German history, fe.g. "Lastausgleich".
1.1.6.14.2.1. Con: That does not mean that it was the right thing to do.
1.1.7. Con: Life is unfair. And no one person or group of people is in a position to determine what is and isn't fair. Fairness has different meaning to different people.
1.1.7.1. Con: It is not guaranteed that the money in the government hands will be spent better and provide more value to people.
1.1.8. Pro: If everyone lost their sense of entitlement and realized they will literally only reap what they themselves sow then society would benefit from the resulting motivational hope inspired by the reality of equal opportunity.
1.2. Pro: Everyone should only get what they achieved themselves.
1.2.1. Con: Even without the monetary component the success of children is dependent on parental support.
1.2.2. Pro: -> See 1.1.
1.2.3. Con: If I want to secure my family, I want to be able to transfer my wealth partly to my children.
1.2.3.1. Con: If that is the case, then you can give them money when you are alive.
1.2.3.1.1. Con: If it's okay to transfer wealth to your children when you are alive, then it should be okay to transfer wealth to your children at the time of your death.
1.2.3.1.2. Con: Giving your money to people while you are alive is classified as a gift and taxed as if it were income.
1.2.3.1.2.1. Pro: Often there is an annual gift threashold up to which there is zero tax, but after which its is treated as income.
1.2.3.2. Con: That is exactly what an inheritance tax over "x value" does. It allows you to transfer 1 million euros to your children without being taxed.
1.2.3.3. Con: The attempt to acquire security for the next generation is best achieved by their nurture, education, and developing their general strengths now. Inheriting wealth is no guarantee of prosperity, its provision - and just its prospect - severely inhibits young people's progress towards standing on their own feet and prevailing themselves.
1.2.4. Pro: Ownership of property is based on receiving it as a result of a voluntary transfer, or by producing it. Inheritance is neither, since dead people can't voluntarily do anything, and if you produced it, you'd already own it.
1.2.4.1. Con: Inheritance is equivalent to a gift, because the decedent has either outlined their wishes in a will, or has implicitly consented to the default distribution of the legal system. If they wanted their property to go to the state, they could have arranged for it.
1.2.4.2. Con: Inheritance is also a voluntary transfer. It is voluntarily earmarked to be given to a particular person, persons, cause or institutions by the giver while they are alive, and is accepted voluntarily as well.
1.2.4.2.1. Pro: Particularly those whom this issue specifies \(those giving an inheritance over 1 million euros\) will likely have voluntarily specified what is to be done with their possessions in a will.
1.2.5. Pro: There would still be advantages to having rich parents. However, the tax would help to equalize the society as a whole by preventing the establishment of essentially hereditary  aristocracy. The Kennedy's and Bush's are good examples of this.
1.2.5.1. Con: Capping the inheritance of wealth would do nothing to prevent the inheritance of political power. Political campaigns are usually funded by a network of large donors, which could be inherited despite the cap.
1.2.6. Con: With this logic nobody would be allowed to inherit anything.
1.2.6.1. Con: The principle of inheriting wealth is wrong in general.
1.2.6.2. Pro: Well you have accumulation of wealth and always need to balance between strong accumulation or equal distribution.
1.2.7. Pro: An inheritance tax would disincentivise people from work their whole life just to make more money for their children to inherit.
1.2.8. Con: A key reason to work is to provide for ones family.
1.2.9. Con: There are many forms of born advantage that contradict this: such as tall people, beautiful people and smart people who nevertheless get to keep the fruits of their advantage.
1.2.10. Pro: A family member who inherits wealth has not achieved something personally and thus should have no right to get anything from the money.
1.2.11. Con: People should be able to have a choice about where their money goes, even after death.
1.3. Pro: This will reduce the social chasm between the poor and rich.
1.3.1. Pro: A flat income distribution will lead to higher quality of life for all members of society.
1.3.1.1. Pro: A low Gini index is generally associated with a high quality of life [see](http://nationranking.wordpress.com/2011/03/06/2011-qli/​).
1.3.1.2. Con: The rich will plant their assets in other parts of the world or hide it under the mattress.   Why does the government deserve to take what they didn't earn?  If that income or assets were already taxed, why can't they be kept in the family?
1.3.1.3. Con: A flat income distribution gives no incentive to do difficult, dirty or unsavory jobs over jobs that are easier or more pleasant. It gives little incentive to pursue education in areas that would benefit others the most, as expressed by their demand.
1.3.1.3.1. Pro: To realize the goal of flat income distribution, one would have to create a totalitarian government and completely destroy all freedom of choice.
1.3.2. Con: 1 million Euros is still far above average, so it would only help to mix the richest top 1% among the top 2%,
1.3.2.1. Con: Since the rest would go to the state, it would not be mixed among the top 2% but among the 99%.
1.3.3. Con: Being on the better side of the social chasm may be the very motivation to do something useful with their lives for some.
1.3.3.1. Con: Like this you have to rely on voluntary donations. This is not enough to bridge the gap between rich and poor.
1.3.3.2. Con: Social mobility is lowest in countries with unequal distribution of wealth. Compare the United States and Denmark with respect to this correlation.
1.3.3.2.1. Con: The comparison between USA and Denmark is a little unfair. USA has a population of 350 millions people and is by far a more heterogeneous society.
1.3.3.3. Con: And this motivation is not touched as people may still earn an unrestricted amount of money for themselves.
1.3.4. Pro: This will ensure that the leaders of society cannot establish family  dynasties or create systems of privilege for themselves and their  relatives and cronies.
1.3.4.1. Pro: Family-wealth over dynasties lead to an oligarchic system
1.3.5. Con: Tax goes to state. Not necessarily to the poor. Thus there will be no winner, it will be just making rich poorer ant that is not a good way to reduce the chasm.
1.3.5.1. Con: If the aim of the tax is to reduce inequality, it will be used on social services or infrastructure to assist everyone.
1.3.5.2. Con: The Gini coefficient \(which measures inequality\) can be evaluated before or after redistribution coming from taxes. You [can see](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_income_equality) that in all cases, it goes down \(lower values\) after redistribution, often dramatically.
1.3.6. Con: The real unfair advantage that children of the wealthy accrue is accrued during their parents' lives - it's a higher quality of education, introductions to favourable networks, job opportunities through nepotism. This would distract from the real problem while doing little to solve actual disadvantage.
1.3.6.1. Con: It wouldn't distract from this other problem. It might even make the other problem more visible.
1.3.6.2. Con: The tax collected could be used on the public education system which to bring it to a higher level. Professional social networks could be more open to people once they have better education and qualifications.
1.3.7. Pro: Wealth transfers fairly easy into political power. Generally most societies benefited greatly from disallowing the direct inheritance of political positions.
1.3.8. Con: A liberty providing Government will create, inevitably, inequalities. It's one of the necessary consequences
1.3.8.1. Con: Liberty can be facilitated in ways that significantly minimise inequality, e.g. democracies that minimise the power of wealthy minorities, inhibit unproductive rent-seeking behaviour, use meritocratic recruitment, have positive discrimination in educational opportunities, and so on.
1.3.9. Pro: Applying the proceeds of the tax solely to the repayment of the national debt, such a tax would rectify an unconscionable generational inequity which outweighs the claims to inheritance of a few undeserving rich kids.
1.3.10. Pro: Wealth above one millon Euros is having a very big impact on social injustice. If it could not be passed on from generation to generation, equity could improve as money could be distributed more equally by state than by a family who keeps it for themself.
1.3.11. Pro: Greater taxes on income and purchases are politically controversial and so set a high bar to raising government funds to tackle social problems. An inheritance tax would be more palatable to the public; allowing the government to direct these funds to important social investments.
1.3.11.1. Con: The funds raised by such a tax would be negligible. People do not want to be taxed, and go to great lengths to avoid high taxes. Realistically, there will be exceptions, and these would be used to avoid a 100% tax.
1.3.11.2. Con: If the tax allows for no exceptions, it would dissipate the taxable property within a generation, thus destroying its source of income. Although new fortunes could be made, these could not fully replenish the tax base, especially since people have less of an incentive to create and keep such fortunes.
1.3.11.3. Con: There is no evidence that inheritance taxes are any more popular than income taxes. In America, for example, this tax has already been rebranded by those who dislike it as a "death tax".
1.3.12. Pro: Taxation of inheritance would enable lowering tax brackets for the living, as the taxes could be taken from the only people who cannot use it themselves: The deceased.
1.4. Pro: This gives an advantage to wealthy families with many children.
1.4.1. Con: It is unlikely that the complexities of inheritance law would seriously motivate families who would otherwise have one child to have three.
1.4.2. Pro: Money is Power and while someone who built a fortune might be responsible with that power, someone who inherited it might not be.
1.4.3. Con: Good parents try to give their children an advantage in the world whether it is good skills or monetary resources. Providing your children with an advantage is precisely the purpose of being a good parent.
1.5. Con: This will lead to capital leaving the country.
1.5.1. Pro: At least it could lead to less capital entering the country.
1.5.1.1. Con: Investing money is also based on available infrastructure, education, security. Countries with low taxation are not necessarily high on the other scales
1.5.1.2. Pro: Capital entering the country would increase the housing prices and therefore the rents for average and poor people.
1.5.2. Con: It will be based on nationality, not on residence. Thus leaving the country will not help.
1.5.2.1. Con: Nationalities can be changed.
1.5.2.1.1. Con: Yes, but if you do, there will be a leaving nationality tax, similar to the leaving the country tax.
1.5.2.1.1.1. Con: Which cannot be enforced.
1.5.2.1.1.2. Con: Such a tax would certainly not be compatible with the constitution.
1.5.2.1.1.2.1. Con: The US taxes unrealized profits of assets that you owned while you were a subject to US taxation, when you stop being US taxable.
1.5.2.1.1.2.2. Con: Constitutions can be changed.
1.5.2.1.1.2.2.1. Pro: Just claim that it helps the war on terror and you are good to go.
1.5.2.1.1.2.3. Con: The leaving the country taxation already exists for a couple of countries, eg in Germany \([Wegzugsbesteuerung](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wegzugsbesteuerung)\).
1.5.2.1.1.3. Con: leaving nationality/country tax itself promotes near immediate capital flight, as capitalists want to minimize losses and seek better opportunities elsewhere.
1.5.2.1.2. Pro: Cyprus e.g. used to sell its passports to wealthy Russian investors.
1.5.3. Con: This can easily be avoided by forming tax unions and/or abolishing national states.
1.5.4. Pro: Capital loss would allow the Eurozone to compete better with China and emerging markets on the cost of its labor because of the lowering exchange rate reflecting the currency exodus.
1.5.5. Con: You would have to abandon your nationality in order to evade your country's fiscal administration, thus undermining the will to "escape".
1.5.6. Con: This is the usual argument against all tax increases. However, there has never been a dramatic capital loss after tax increases in the past.
1.5.6.1. Con: Suggesting a 100% tax after a million is a dramatic change, resulting in more dramatic countermeasures.
1.5.6.2. Pro: There are other important factors that influence residency decisions like quality of life, democratic governance etc.
1.5.7. Pro: A lot of people are living in other countries for tax reasons even with the current laws
1.5.7.1. Con: -> See 1.5.2.
1.6. Con: -> See 1.1.6.
1.7. Con: Many extremely talented people will stop working after they have reached a certain amount of money, as they cannot pass it on to their children.
1.7.1. Pro: Many talent-less people may also stop work creating employment prospects for the rest of the population.
1.7.2. Pro: That can destroy the incentive to accumulate wealth. If you don't accumulate wealth then no money is made available for investing in industries, startups, and capital. If for some reason someone is able to have millions of dollars and they know that it will be 100% taxed they will spend the money in frivolous thing like parties, luxuries etc and that money will not be used into new investments. [Milton Friedman: 100% taxes on inheritance.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=km9OCw3f5w4)
1.7.2.1. Pro: In a long-term, it would lead to the destruction of civilization not just frivolous spending. Wealth accumulation is the thing that made today's high standard of living possible.
1.7.3. Pro: As once Milton Friedman said, one of our most important incentives to prefer long term consumption over instant gratification\( spending\) is to give our offspring better living conditions passing our accrued efforts, and by that, our wealth.
1.7.4. Con: Our knowledge of human motivation clearly contradicts this.
1.7.4.1. Con: While wealthy and productive people might not stop working and creating value altogether, many of them would be likely to do so to much less of a degree, and spend their time in leisure instead.
1.7.5. Pro: A big part of the reason why people work hard their entire lives, is to be able to put their children in a good situation. It's charitable and wonderful thing to do. The incentive for working hard and putting yourself ahead dissappears if some bureaucrat take everything that you have created.
1.7.6. Pro: The entire point of working and saving is for the betterment of your children when you're a parent. The idea that if you actually succeed when you die the majority of what you have accomplished financially could go to the government instead of your own children is crazy and would in itself harm societies and the social fabric.
1.7.7. Con: Very few rich people are rarely motivated by wanting to pass on a lot to their children, see [e.g. Warren Buffet or Bill Gates](https://www.cnbc.com/2016/09/26/warren-buffett-bill-gates-have-similar-ideas-on-how-much-money-to-leave-kids.html).
1.7.7.1. Con: Many people who think in legacy terms, as in leaving a legacy for future generations, think in wealth accumulation.
1.7.7.2. Pro: Many people that made their own money do not want their children becoming completely spoiled and thus do only want to leave them with reasonable wealth, not the billions that they accrued.
1.7.8. Pro: Greater wealth will always encourage less work because more wealth requires more time and effort to spend it.
1.7.8.1. Pro: Work is not a single cause of wealth. Besides work, you need nature and capital. If in wealthier countries you work less this is better because you produce well in a much more efficient way ergo you work less. Working less is objective of economic progress. [Look for Book II, Chapter III: The function of capital in production.](https://mises-media.s3.amazonaws.com/The%20Positive%20Theory%20of%20Capital.pdf?file=1&type=document)
1.7.9. Con: The public benefits from productive citizens. If children inherit less, they will have to work more.
1.7.10. Con: As long as they think, that they have the time to spend this money, there is no point in stopping to work.
1.7.10.1. Pro: People work to live and enjoy life. For some, that means spending money on expensive things  or experiences, so they will continue to work.
1.7.10.1.1. Con: For many others, it means working hard to leave  better life for their children. These people, who are often among the most productive, will be disincentivized to keep working for the benefit of others.
1.7.10.2. Con: If they think this way, they will stop working immediately until they own less than 1 Million €
1.7.11. Pro: This suggestion goes too far.  Inheritance received upon the death of a parent should be treated as income for the person receiving it, and thus subject to the same taxes as any other income, but I strongly disagree that the tax should be set at 100%.  Make it 90% for any income that takes someone into the 99.9 percentile.  Taking everything away would reduce the incentive for the next generation to strive to do more and be more.
1.7.11.1. Con: This would continue to allow the concentration of wealth without merit, while not protecting equality of opportunity for all.
1.7.11.2. Con: People without inheritances have not had "everything taken away" and still have incentives to "strive to do more and be more".
1.7.12. Con: They can always work in another country.
1.8. Con: €1 million is not enough to ensure a good quality of life for inheritors.
1.8.1. Con: This is heavily subjective. How to define "live a good life"?
1.8.1.1. Con: Above average in the western society should be considered as good by most people.
1.8.1.1.1. Con: why is the average important the definition of a good life should not be relativ
1.8.1.1.1.1. Pro: Obviously "the average" would not be enough for a good life in more than half the countries on the planet.
1.8.2. Con: If you don't spend those 1 million Euros all at once you can invest and live from the interest.
1.8.2.1. Con: With the current low-interest rates this is quite hard / risky. And the interest rates won't rise anytime soon.
1.8.2.2. Con: This will give you a somewhat comfortable life without a job. This is not desirable for everyone.
1.8.2.2.1. Con: Nobody prevents you from working anyway.
1.8.2.3. Con: At current interest rates, interest on 1 million euros could not even keep you above the poverty line. Before tax.
1.8.3. Pro: In a 'while' 1mio EUR is not worth much anymore. Similar examples are income tax effects known under 'kalte Progression'
1.8.3.1. Con: A sensible implementation of this tax would include a adaption of this tax, according to some concept of "market basket"
1.8.3.2. Con: This is already handled by adopting the tax progression. The same measure could be taken here.
1.8.4. Pro: A house worth 1mio for a 6 headed family in Munich is not the same as one worth 100000 in Dresden.
1.8.5. Pro: 1 million euros cannot generate enough income at today's interest rates and price level to comfortably retire. At 3% interest, 1 million euros can only generate 30,000 euros in income per year, and that's before tax. At 2% it's 20,000 euros a year, and so on.
1.8.6. Pro: Nobody can decided for others what is the right amount of money that they can live with.
1.8.7. Pro: If the financial provider of the family would die, his/her spouse and \(young\) childeren would be left without any provision.
1.9. Pro: This could probably heavily incite private consumption, which is generally considered a good thing.
1.9.1. Con: Dissaving is economically speaking not considered a good thing. Investing in capital goods and accruing wealth is considered a good thing.
1.9.1.1. Pro: Dissaving, meaning people borrowed to consume, was one of the reasons for the recent US crisis.
1.9.2. Con: Consumption is not necessarily good. It is not necessarily good to burn your house for warmth, for instance. Consumption is ultimately the result of production and savings. If you want to increase the potential for sustainable consumption, create production, savings and investment. That is where all consumption goods come from in the end. Only by stimulating production, savings and investment can you stimulate sustainable consumption, by making goods and services more affordable to all.
1.9.3. Con: A 100% tax could heavily deincentivize saving which would mean a lot less investment in the economy and therefore lower growth.
1.9.3.1. Con: When the US tax rate was high, we saw a lot of reinvestment in business \(as it was a write off\). Offering similar "write-offs" to the inheritance tax could likewise stimulate investment and growth.
1.9.4. Con: Parents will be incentivized to spend all their money on their children while they are still alive in ways that may be inefficient or wasteful.
1.9.4.1. Pro: This incentivizes people to spend all their money before death. It would not be logical to die with money to your name.
1.9.4.2. Pro: Would a parent not be able to give their kids money before they die? If they could not transfer wealth to children, then one would be forced to either let their money become seized by the state upon death, or spend all their money on their self before dying. This effectively deincentivizes generosity and increases selfishness — after all many people in the upper class of society get great pleasure by giving to others.
1.9.5. Con: Rich people's children, either will continue to work hard, or will be spending it all. In both cases there's money flowing back in the system. No need for state intrusion.
1.9.6. Con: Instituting a 100% inheritance tax would incentivize consuming all your savings, which would in turn worsen consumerism and the problems that come with it.
1.9.6.1. Pro: Consumption is not necessarily a good thing.
1.9.6.1.1. Con: Right, but we are talking about extremely rich people who ever only spend a small fraction of their money in their lifetime.
1.9.6.1.2. Con: There are outlying situations where consumption isn't healthy. However, in general, consumption is required to keep the economy healthy.
1.9.7. Con: -> See 1.9.6.1.
1.9.8. Con: People will e.g. buy gold to secure their wealth. Gold can easily be transfered without control.
1.9.8.1. Con: It will always be possible to illegally circumvent taxation. But that's not what it is about, today it is legally possible to do so. This is what we want to change.
1.9.8.2. Con: You could prohibit the possession of gold, or also foreign currencies. See e.g. the current situation in Argentina.
1.9.9. Pro: The major part of the money that is owned by wealthy people is actually 'dead' or used for speculation. Keeping the money circulating is a good thing.
1.9.9.1. Con: Money that is used for speculation also creates consumption via the projects it is invested in
1.9.9.1.1. Con: Prioritizing investment over using taxes to financially empower lower classes is economically ineffective: one company's possible consumption with a given investment cannot equal the possible consumption of hundreds/thousands of people each spending a proportional share of the same investment.
1.9.9.2. Con: The vast majority of wealth does not consist of cash or cash-equivalents, but profit-generating assets, like real estate or companies. There is no significant amount of 'dead money'.
1.9.9.3. Con: Money cannot be "dead". Even when it is "hoarded" it is either deposited in banks to be lent out to others, invested in new productive assets, or used to save commodities from being completely used up at currently low prices \(aka "speculation".\) Even if you just stick it under the mattress, it creates monetary deflation, thereby reducing prices for others.
1.10. Con: There will always be loopholes to evade this kind of taxation. The business model of a lot of countries depends on providing such loopholes.
1.10.1. Con: You can construct near perfect such systems, it has just not yet been done. The taxation by nationality does a good job at that.
1.10.2. Con: This will encourage capital flight where assets will be moved overseas or into corporate trusts. This reduces the activity of this money in the economies of the countries imposing these laws, reducing job creation and growth.
1.10.3. Pro: This idea would do wonders for precious metal prices as rich people would convert their financial assets into physical ones that can literally be hidden.
1.10.4. Con: There has been a lot of progress on this, e.g. in Switzerland.
1.10.4.1. Con: Banks adapt as soon as the conditions are changed. It is still possible to hide e.g. German money in Swiss real estate funds.
1.10.4.1.1. Con: -> See 1.9.8.1.
1.10.5. Con: If only 100% perfect solutions are considered, no solution will ever be realized
1.10.5.1. Con: If only one country on the world offers a tax evasion product, everyone who is affected will use this product.
1.10.5.1.1. Con: -> See 1.5.2.
1.11. Con: It's difficult to measure wealth.
1.11.1. Pro: E.g. there are financial constructs that lead to 'artifical poorness'
1.11.1.1. Con: No, they only lead to artificial poorness from a tax perspective, not from an economic perspective. You can very clearly evaluate how much somebody has.
1.11.2. Con: Wealth is already measured for the current inheritance tax.
1.11.2.1. Con: Yes, which has several special cases not stated here in the topic node.
1.11.3. Pro: There are many assets whose market value cannot be determined accurately, except by trying to sell them, because they are rare or one-of-a-kind and thus are not traded frequently. This applies, for example, to jewelry, real estate and works of art.
1.11.4. Pro: €1 million is an arbitrary value.
1.11.4.1. Con: It has a symbolic value for the society. Speaking about "millionaires" in a public debate is another category than speaking about well-earners.
1.11.4.2. Pro: The threshold should be indexed or fluid rather than arbitrary.  For instance a threshold of 10x median salary will adjust itself with general inflation and wage growth over time.
1.11.4.3. Con: 49% max income tax is an arbitrary value.
1.11.4.4. Con: the medieval 1/10 is an arbitrary value
1.12. Con: Family-run companies and heirlooms will not be able to be passed on to the next generation.
1.12.1. Con: There could be incentives to bestow ownership of parts of the company as shares to the employees in the will.
1.12.1.1. Con: Non-family-member employees are not the family. It would still cease to be a family run company.
1.12.1.2. Pro: This could be a way to reward the role of employees in building the company, which is at the very least as important as being the inheritor of the company's founder, being merit- rather than blood-based.
1.12.1.3. Con: Company owners might die more often from mysterious accidents and causes.
1.12.2. Pro: Businesses cannot just be split up.
1.12.2.1. Con: Not a problem, you can just sell the business and then use the proceeds to give some inheritance to the heirs and use the rest to pay the inheritance tax.
1.12.3. Con: The company can be structured in such a way that it is not considered a bequeathal when one of the proprietors dies and passes on control to another family member.
1.12.4. Pro: This would deal damage to properties and the provenance of items with immense historical value. Say, a family owns a castle, and they have been handling upkeep. The family would be forced to split ownership and handle upkeep as a cooperative. Small items of immense physical and monetary value, such as artwork, would need to be jointly owned or auctioned.
1.12.5. Pro: The capital bound in machinery/buildings ist not liquid, so the heir might have to sell the company to pay the tax
1.12.5.1. Con: Heirs can always lever the companies assets to pay their taxes.
1.12.5.1.1. Con: Taking on debt to keep the company going is effectively the same as selling an ownership interest in the company to keep it alive.
1.12.5.2. Con: A full inheritance tax law can be structured in such a way as to avoid forcing the selling of company assets, but rather selling shares.
1.12.6. Pro: In case of death any of family member the ownership of company would change and finally the rest of family would lose control of their company with unpredictable consequences.
1.12.7. Con: That is the point. Fair is fair. Everyone should start from zero. No business should last more than 1 lifetime.
1.12.7.1. Con: Why is it more fair? Why cant a parent work hard to make life better for his or her children?
1.12.8. Pro: There would be a strong incentive for any family in this situation to move out of any communistically kleptocratic jurisdiction imposing this law.
1.12.9. Con: The company remains as an entity; but it's ownership is given over to the goverment. Management could then be passed along to the most competent individual.
1.12.9.1. Con: Then the government would also inherit the risk of the company getting bankrupt or indebted. Once the government owns too many of those inherited companies they wouldn't be able to compete anymore. The government would eventually become a monopolist with all the economic disadvantages this entails.
1.12.9.1.1. Con: Corporations that owe money do not transfer that to their owners when they go bankrupt. That is the primary reason why people created limited liability corporations in the first place.
1.12.9.1.2. Con: The government doesn't need to hold or operate those companies indefinitely, it can and likely would sell their ownership stake.
1.12.9.2. Con: Government doe not have a proven track record of being able to select competent individuals and good, fiscally responsible management. Quite the contrary.
1.12.9.3. Con: Allowing the government to create laws which permit it to assume ownership over private business enterprises is basically equivalent to opening a window for forceful nationalization. The government has no such intrinsic right to value created by private individuals.
1.12.9.4. Pro: The company remains as an entity, and the government sells it to claim the tax.
1.12.9.5. Con: There are completely different entrepreneurial motivations between families vs goverments. Familes want to create wealth for its members in long term while the state wants to take it from them in short term.
1.12.9.6. Con: The government has a bad track record for selecting the "most competent individual".
1.12.10. Pro: This in turn will lead to a decline of private entrepreneurship. You will know, that the work of your lifetime will be sold to large companies or holdings.
1.12.10.1. Con: The primary motivation for entrepreneurs to start businesses is not pass them on to their children, if they even have any.
1.12.10.1.1. Con: They might deem their children to be incompetent to run a business.
1.12.10.1.2. Con: Running a business is a hard and often dirty job, they do not want their children to have to go through this.
1.12.10.1.3. Con: When starting a business you are not thinking about passing it on, but just about making it succeed in the moment, changing the world and/or making money.
1.12.10.1.3.1. Pro: It is a bit premature for somebody starting a business to already assume that it will succeed and be then passed on for generations.
1.12.10.1.4. Con: Very few do have big companies today, are still managed or controlled by the founding families.
1.12.10.1.4.1. Pro: Especially if a business spans over multiple generations, most of the times there are too many heirs in order for any single part of the family to control the business and thus they do not act as a founding family.
1.12.10.1.4.2. Pro: Very often individual heirs want to liquidate their assets and diversify into other asset classes.
1.12.10.2. Con: You can make the company a non-profit and not leave it to your children.
1.12.10.2.1. Con: Which is not necessarily what someone intended to do when founding the company. How could you build a Non-Profit Oil & Mining Company?
1.12.10.2.1.1. Con: Zeiss is e.g. held by a non-profit foundation
1.12.10.2.1.2. Con: Augustiner produces the best beer in the world and is a foundation!