Discussion Title: Should the president of the European Commission be directly elected?

1. The President of the European Commission should be directly elected by a popular vote.
1.1. Pro: It would make it easier for voters to keep the European Commission accountable.
1.1.1. Con: The European Comission and the UE President are different political subjects. Therefore, the direct election of the UE President is independent from the European Comission decisions and it's not a way of being accountable to citizens
1.2. Pro: The competition between [Juncker and Schultz](https://www.politico.eu/article/schunker-coln-debate-analysis-tv/) communicated visions for the EU among voters.
1.3. Con: In formal terms, the president of the Commission doesn't yield much more power than any given member of the Commission, so there is no need to give them special treatment.
1.4. Pro: Presidential elections typically have a high voter turnout, and would create democratic legitimacy in the top of EU.
1.4.1. Con: Europarliament elections have a low and decreasing voter turn-out. If the European presidential elections would have a similar low voter turnout, the president of commission would suffer from lack of democratic legitimacy more than head of states of nation states.
1.5. Pro: It will reinforce the supranational nature of EU, helping a shift of power from the Member states \(Council\) to democratically elected institutions.
1.6. Pro: It would let EU citizens have a larger influence on the final composition of the Commission.
1.6.1. Con: A single position in the Commission would unlikely make that much of a difference.
1.7. Pro: It is likely to reduce anti-EU sentiment, if that anti-EU sentiment was based on the idea that the EU is an undemocratic institution.
1.7.1. Con: Smaller countries would not have as loud a voice as larger countries, leading to warped representation.
1.7.1.1. Con: The alternative is having no voice and having an unelected bureaucrat in the position instead. This is actually less representative.
1.7.1.2. Con: The president should not have country-based affiliations in their decision-making while occupying the post, so their nationality should be irrelevant.
1.8. Con: -> See 1.7.1.
1.9. Con: Presidential elections could polarize Europe.
1.9.1. Pro: In the US certain states almost always vote for Republican, and others almost always for a Democrat. In the EU, the effects could be more harmful, as the countries in the EU differ more from each other than states in the US.
1.9.2. Con: With polarization comes attention.
1.9.3. Con: Policy options for the EU commission president are very narrow.
1.9.4. Con: Schulz vs Juncker did not polarize Europe.
1.9.5. Con: Europe is already very polarized.
1.10. Con: The lack of common language would make the elections difficult for candidates and voters to participate in.
1.10.1. Con: The EU already deals with language discrepancies by translating important speeches and documents - the same could be done for the election.
1.10.2. Pro: Candidates that speak most commonly spoken languages would have an unfair advantage.
1.11. Con: The countries in the EU differ too much for a single candidate to be able to achieve genuine popular support among the majority.