Discussion Title: Should private property exist in outer space?

1. Private property should exist in outer space.
1.1. Con: There is no justification to claim something as "yours" if you did not create it or acquire it lawfully from someone who did \(et cetera on down\).
1.1.1. Con: If you can only claim something if you created it, then nobody can claim any land on earth. \(That is, except if you believe something created the earth and passed it down to mankind.\)
1.1.2. Con: Land can be considered property if it is claimed and cultivated to a persons needs, outside a legal contract or change of ownership. If a person arrives on a planet that is uninhabited and terraforms that planet, it can rightfully be considered theirs, as they have provided the conditions of a livable space.
1.2. Con: Governments are not allowed to own property in space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, as per the [UN Outer Space Treaty of 1967](https://www.lunarland.com/1967-space-treaty/)
1.2.1. Con: Current law is not an argument, it is a statement.
1.2.1.1. Con: Finding agreement internationally illustrates common agreement of the majority of nations. This makes it more than just a statement but the expression of consensus.
1.3. Pro: As outer space is a “[global commons](http://www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:742040/FULLTEXT02),” creating a private property regime is one viable option for regulating its use.
1.4. Pro: If there is permanent habitation outside of Earth then private property may be necessary for its management.
1.5. Con: Owning an entire planet would lead to the owner/owners to have too much influence over the galaxy. If there is extraterrestrial life on said planet, then the ability for someone to legally own the planet and its inhabitants would be unethical
1.5.1. Pro: -> See discussion #1258: Alien life has existed or does exist.
1.6. Con: Allowing nations to claim private property in space would lead to an unfair distribution of property among states
1.6.1. Pro: If the logic of land ownership in space follows a "first to plant a flag" rule, the richest nations, or even the single first nation capable of extended space travel, would have a monopoly
1.7. Pro: There is an inherent right to private property in space.
1.7.1. Pro: There is legal precedence for property rights on earth that translate to space.
1.7.1.1. Con: Extending Earth legal framework to space will carry with it unnecessary societal ills into space and its humans.
1.7.1.2. Pro: It will be easy for Earth humans to adapt to cultures of space humans if Earth like laws are carried over where appropriate.
1.7.1.2.1. Con: In the case of a space-dwelling civilisation \(where its spaceship is it's 'planet'/it doesn't return to a terrestrial planet\), that civilisation should be allowed to 'scavenge' from the resources around it, so long as it is outside the orbit of a civilisation-bearing planet.
That right assumes no private property in "outer space".
1.7.1.3. Con: There are also "rights" that assume a resource is a common good, until such a time it is "landed". \([Derived from Fisheries common property](https://www.jstor.org/stable/1825571).\) Implementing that would mean nothing in space can be privately owned until such a time as it is brought to Earth.
1.7.1.4. Pro: The concept of "private property" is a political idea, protected in law and therefore defined by politics.
Therefore, unless politics is specifically altered for this purpose, or else changes in the mean time, private property rights should be attainable for resources in outer space, as a continuation of our current politics.
1.7.2. Pro: In the past, new frontiers \(such as colonies\) had property rights protected.
1.7.3. Pro: Property rights are needed in space.
1.7.4. Con: Private property rights [are an artifact of our present social contract](https://www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/ks4i/rousseau.htm). Different conditions in outer space, such as long-term close quarters cohabitation, a closed economy, severe resource constraints, free energy, and the prevalence of decision-making performed by automated systems, could necessitate other social arrangements.
1.7.4.1. Con: Social arrangements are not possible without first acknowledging private property. Therefore, private property must be an inherent right. For example, in order to communicate each party must acknowledge each others inherent property rights over their own body, since the body is required for communication.
1.7.4.1.1. Pro: The right to bodily autonomy for self preservation is the must fundamental private property. All external property is merely instrumental to this inherent good.
1.8. Con: Trying to enforce laws protecting private property in outer space would be incredibly difficult if not impossible
1.8.1. Pro: It's unclear who would enforce outer space property rights. The current system of governments enforcing rights doesn't easily transfer over to space.
1.8.2. Con: While enforcement agencies have a problem to extend their services to space, criminals face the same problem.
1.8.3. Con: Property conflicts involving earth based companies can still be settled by using assets on earth.
1.8.4. Con: In the high stakes, high confined, and high collective enterprise of space colonization, the social consequence to delinquency is amplified. The legal ramification of crime my also be more extreme than on Earth. Additionally these people have nowhere to run so the risk reward analysis of potential crime is screwed towards risk.
1.8.5. Con: Even if it's true, it doesn't constiture a sufficient justification to abandon a basic right which plays an important role in the society organisation.
1.8.6. Con: Space conquest suggest new technology, we can bet that at this stage of our evolution technology will help us enforce the law at larger territories.
1.8.7. Con: There will be safe areas where we can exert laws and "dead space" with no rules. We can compare this to international waters.
1.9. Pro: Private property is essential to human social function.
1.10. Con: Private property in space and defence of said property will lead to inter human conflict.
1.10.1. Con: War is caused by shifts in the [balance of power](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Balance_of_power_\(international_relations\)). Private property in space can avoid conflict if it benefits those countries whith declining power.
1.10.1.1. Pro: The US is often seen in decline and therefore on a confrontational path with China. Property in space can help the US to offsett it's earthly decline.
1.10.1.1.1. Con: Or property in space can be America's second space race, this time against a different rival.
1.10.1.2. Con: Any self sufficient space instillation will eventually break away from the host nation. This has been seen throughout history, the American revolution in a notable example. Property in space can not be counted on to be an continued asset for any one power on Earth.
1.11. Con: Private property for humans and human organisations in space will cause owners to conflict with other species unnecessarily.
1.11.1. Con: No other species exist in our solar system that would contest humans who own space-lots.
1.11.1.1. Pro: Whether or not aliens exist in our universe has no bearing on contested space in our solar system.
1.11.1.2. Con: -> See 1.5.1.
1.11.2. Con: Even assuming another civilisation with the concept of property exists in the solar system \(or universe, if we leave the solar system\), that is an issue to be dealt with through political treaties. It is not an excuse to abandon private property altogether.
1.11.3. Con: Besides the fact that we have not made contact with extra-terrestrials, it is doubtful that livestock will be brought onboard space intimations for the sake of energy conservation and as a precaution against animal born diseases. # vegans in space
1.12. Con: Private property has been rendered necessary by the scarce resources. Yet, the outer space is an infinite space. That's why private property shouldn't exist in outer space.
1.12.1. Con: Although space is infinite, the amount of matter inside it is finite. Therefore resources are always scarce.
1.12.2. Con: Scarcity is always relevant as not all resources are in the same location. So long as there is difficulty in the acquisition of resources, those resources will always be scarce.
1.12.3. Con: Time required to travel places constraint on what resources are available in what amount of effort. Invent infinite instantaneous travel and your point will be relevant.
1.12.3.1. Con: Resources within the comet belt, various moons and entire planets are abundant.
1.12.3.1.1. Con: Abundant doesn't mean infinite. In order for scarcity to stop existing and property rights to break down as a result, you need infinite resources.

Or, in more complete terms: as long as the resources are limited, they won't suffice to satisfy all of our [unlimited wants](https://books.google.es/books?id=8Nxj2awNqFYC&pg=PA7&hl=en#v=onepage&q&f=false).
1.12.3.1.1.1. Pro: We can speak of infinite ressources on the base of a time scale. If the production capacity of humanity don't exceed the colonisation capacity we can speak of infinite ressources. As one planet take a long time to be completly depleted
1.12.3.2. Con: Space colonies or space-dwelling cultures will not require "instantaneous" travel to reach far distances and therefore distant resources. They can be travelling for as long as the civilisation can be sustained, which could be indefinite.
1.12.3.2.1. Con: The travel times involved still constrain resources.  If you need 50 tons of iodine to support your current population, and you currently have 51 tons, and your recycling loses 1% per year, you have 2 years to get more iodine before you have to start reducing your population. \(or to be able to grow it\)
1.13. Pro: Position doesn't invalidate the time and resources it takes to produce and maintain something.
Using personal resources to create and preserve property creates the necessity for private property
1.14. Con: The existence of private property claims will only advantage countries/corporations with the capital to invest \(which are often the most well-off\).
1.14.1. Con: It is good that those who invest do see advantages and returns. Otherwise no one would invest in the technology in the first place.
1.14.2. Pro: The idea of asteroid mining is an extremely wealth-favouring endeavour i.e. only those wealthy enough to build space crafts with mining technologies can profit.
This kind of wealth concentration is politically inexpedient, and the wealth disparity it would create is socially detrimental.
It should therefore be considered a 'common good', and a sort of 'import tax' be paid on materials intentionally transported to Earth.
1.14.3. Pro: Advantaging the most well-off increases global economic inequality.
1.14.4. Con: Eventually, everyone begins to benefit from the development of space technology.
1.14.4.1. Pro: Many benefits of space development are militaristic in nature, which can be used to enforce global peace.
1.14.4.1.1. Con: If a country develops militaristic capabilities for itself, it can be used against other countries that pose a threat or anger the technology host country.
1.14.4.1.2. Pro: [Mutual assured destruction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_assured_destruction) brings peace, such as during the Cold War.
1.14.4.1.3. Con: The technologies that would enforce peace, such as missile technology, is already in place.
1.14.4.1.4. Con: Modern wars are not interstate but domestic wars. Here space technology is unlikely to be useful in enforcing peace.
1.14.4.2. Pro: Much spin-off technology that resulted from space exploration and development is now widely available around the globe.
1.15. Pro: In the long run private property will help incentivize space exploration and colonization.
1.15.1. Pro: The practically infinite amount of space puts no limit on resources.
1.15.1.1. Con: Space offer unlimited ressources but their exploitation is prone to accesibility. We need to colonize, terraform, and deploy large ressources to exploit a planet's ressources which can lead to a lack of disponible ressources \(huge reservoir but tiny tap\)
1.15.1.2. Con: Space is mostly empty, acquiring resources in it \(especially specific resources, like water\) is not a trivial endeavour.
1.15.2. Pro: This is the only way to incentivize space development.
1.15.2.1. Pro: Governments and corporations are not incentivized to invest when there's no chance of return, and private property is the most obvious return.
1.15.2.1.1. Con: Private corporations can invest in something regardless of the private property, water for example is the most obvious example, in France water company don't possess the water itself, they only sell the traitment and the routing of it to the houses. There are a lot of other example like mining concessions that don't always requieres private property.
1.15.2.2. Pro: Space development is really important because there are many resources in space that are rare on earth.
1.15.3. Pro: Catherine Doldirina from the Institute of Air & Space Law at McGill University suggests that considering outer space to be the common heritage of mankind has [slowed space exploration](https://eandt.theiet.org/content/articles/2010/07/who-owns-outer-space/).