Discussion Title: Should we buy local over global products?

1. Local craft products are preferable over global industrial products
1.1. Pro: Because they're usually made by hand in small quantities and not in factories, local craft products are often crafted with greater attention to detail and quality.
1.1.1. Con: Machines are more accurate than humans. This allows for better details and quality.
1.2. Pro: Multinationals have too much power.
1.2.1. Pro: Multinationals are harming local shops.
1.3. Pro: Buying local reduces environmental impact.
1.3.1. Pro: Local craft products are often made in smaller quantities and travel less distance between the producer and the consumer, reducing their environmental impact compared to imported products.
1.3.2. Pro: Global industrial products often have less connection with the environment.
1.4. Pro: Local craft products support local economy.
1.4.1. Pro: Buying local helps support and improve the[middle class](https://ilsr.org/key-studies-why-local-matters/#2) of a community.
1.4.2. Pro: Local businesses help provide jobs within the community.
1.4.3. Con: Global companies, like chain stores, typically hire from the local community, thus supporting the local economy.
1.5. Con: Global industrial products use resources more effectively.
1.5.1. Pro: Global industrial products use machines in most if not all parts of the production process making the process cheaper as a whole.
1.5.2. Con: Cheaper =/ effective. Also it will not be the case in the future.
1.6. Pro: Local craft products have lower shipping costs.
1.7. Con: Global industrial products are more fitting with the modern global culture.
1.8. Con: Global industrial products provide us with a bigger choice of products.
1.8.1. Pro: This is particularly true for food and drink, as some crops cannot be grown in certain climates and therefore must be imported \(e.g. tea leaves and coffee beans are only grown in particular regions of the world\).
1.9. Pro: Local craft products help build the local culture, community feeling and togetherness,
1.10. Con: Local craft products might result in family companies where its hard to get in, while global industrial companies might make it easier to apply for a job.