Discussion Title: Should football (soccer) in Australia adopt a promotion and relegation system?

1. Football \(soccer\) in Australia should adopt a promotion and relegation system.
1.1. Con: Promotion and Relegation is a solution for when there are too many teams that want to compete in a league. Australia does not have this problem.
1.2. Con: Promotion and Relegation present extreme financial hardships on both promoted and relegated clubs.
1.2.1. Pro: Leagues have standards for pitch and stadium specifications. In order to be qualified for promotion, clubs have to meet those standards or receive a waiver. The cost in implementing those standards \(like stadium size, goal line technology, etc.\) can present a great hardship on a club seeking promotion without really benefiting it.
1.2.2. Pro: Relegated clubs lose out on the money from the more lucrative broadcast deals. This can amount to tens of millions of dollars in difference depending on the league.
1.2.3. Pro: Relegated clubs tend to see a decline in attendance. Lower attendance means less gate revenue and less money to spend on the club.
1.2.4. Pro: Talented players sometimes have contracts that require that they be sold if the club is relegated. Because this is a requirement, the value of that player is lower than if they had otherwise been sold, resulting in less money for the relegated club.
1.2.5. Pro: Relegation often costs clubs sponsorship money, as it becomes less lucrative to advertise with a team playing in an inferior league.
1.2.6. Pro: Relegated teams often have to reduce the price of tickets in order to attract attendance.
1.2.7. Pro: In order to compete in a higher league, clubs often must sign better players. This can mean a higher costs in transfer payments and wages. However, this is not necessarily money that the club has immediately, and thus has to be leveraged against predicted earnings. If those expected earnings are not meant \(for example, because of relegation\), the club may find themselves in a cycle of debilitating debt.
1.3. Con: Promotion and relegation requires a system of entrenched inequality between clubs. You cannot have systems of parity with a promotion and relegation scheme.
1.3.1. Con: It is preferable to have systems without parity.
1.3.1.1. Con: Lack of parity leads to the concentration of wealth with a few teams, undermining the competitive nature of a league competition.
1.3.1.2. Pro: Teams that can concentrate resources will be able to buy more of the best players. This means that they will be able to perform at higher standards of soccer.
1.4. Pro: It allows every team in the system to aim for the top competition.
1.4.1. Con: Not every team needs to be in the top competition.
1.4.2. Con: Promotion and Relegation does not give each team an equitable or realistic chance at reaching the top competition.
1.4.2.1. Pro: Teams with more resources tend to be in major cities, thus the top tier will be predominantly made up of teams from major cities and teams with less resources in regional areas won't have the same opportunity.
1.4.2.1.1. Con: If urban teams are favored then more people can enjoy watching those matches live.
1.4.3. Con: In most leagues, the clubs most likely to be relegated are those who have been promoted in the last few years. This means that promotion/relegation does not meaningfully provide positive change in leagues.
1.4.4. Con: Investment would dry up in teams that drop down in lower leagues as they would lose exposure on television etc.
1.4.5. Con: In countries like England, only extremely old teams, teams that have essentially become institutions, have made it to the top flight.
1.4.5.1. Pro: Of the teams that have participated in the [Premier League](https://www.premierleague.com/clubs), all of them are currently at least a century old with two exceptions: Leeds United \(99 years old\), and Wigan Athletic \(86 years old\).
1.4.6. Pro: It refreshes the competitions as teams move up and down levels.
1.4.7. Pro: It allows for more players to be involved in the sport.
1.4.7.1. Con: This is only true if promotion and relegation allows for more clubs in a nation's soccer league pyramid. And there is not good evidence of this.
1.4.8. Con: Players' payments and conditions will have to be lowered to allow more players in an open system.
1.4.9. Pro: In a closed competition lower teams which have no chance of winning, or go into finals/playoffs have less motivation to win and less interesting for the fans. A relegation battle means that interest will be kept up for the whole season for most teams.
1.4.10. Con: Promotion and relegation is not in the sporting culture of countries such as Australia or USA.
1.5. Pro: Promotion and Relegation disincentives leagues from instituting budget and salary caps.
1.5.1. Con: Relegation functions as a negative pressure which pushes down the wages of players playing on teams that are relegated or at threat of relegation \(which often includes newly promoted teams.\)
1.6. Pro: Most of the world's leagues have systems with promotion and relegation.
1.7. Con: Seeing one's favorite team be relegated feels horrible.