Discussion Title: Should People With Mental Health Conditions Be Able To Become Mental Health Nurses?

1. People with mental health conditions should be able to become mental health nurses.
1.1. Con: There is a shortage of staff for wardens in prisons, so by the logic of this topic you might as well ask criminals to be the wardens. This is patently absurd.
1.1.1. Con: This argument doesn't take into consideration that experiencing a mental health condition is a natural part of being human. Arguably everybody experiences some level of MH difficulties at some time in their lives, and not through choice. It's categorically different from appointing a prisoner \(someone who has chosen to live outside the standard set by society\) into a professional position of responsibility.
1.1.2. Con: Criminals are dangerous people or people proven to have broken a law. People with mental illness just have a brain that doesn't work correctly. Unless the assumption is that mentally ill people are dangerous, it makes no sense to compare that.
1.2. Pro: It's not fair to force someone out of their profession simply because they develop a condition.
1.3. Pro: There are many mental health conditions that would not prevent someone from doing their job well as a mental health nurse.
1.3.1. Pro: [1/4 people have mental health problems](https://www.england.nhs.uk/mental-health/). To not hire someone on the basis that they have a condition would be counterproductive, leading to even greater staffing shortages and pressure on services.
1.4. Pro: People with a lived experience of poor mental health can be more aware of how a patient would like to be supported with their own problems.
1.4.1. Pro: Empathic relationships reduce [stress levels](https://www.medicaldaily.com/surprising-health-effects-empathy-240983) and therewith support recovery.
1.4.2. Con: This is untrue. They will have an understanding of their own issues, but mental health is so unique and nuanced to each individual that trying to superimpose what helped them in their lives onto other people is potentially damaging.
1.5. Con: Having a mental health issue could make it harder to deal with the pressure and stress that naturally accompanies the nursing industry.
1.5.1. Pro: Some mental health conditions such as panic attacks or PTSD can immediately render a person terrified and frozen with fear. This is not a reliable quality in such a demanding environment where a nurse needs to remain calm under pressure.
1.5.1.1. Con: History of a disorder doesn’t say that they currently have the disorder; it has at some point been an issue.  Most mental illness can be treated to cure or at least managed levels.
1.5.1.2. Con: Those with such illnesses can learn strategies and coping mechanisms to avoid such a situation
1.5.2. Con: Mental health problems vary in severity. Not everyone who has a mental health problem is unable to cope with stress and pressure.
1.6. Con: [Mental Health Foundation](https://www.mentalhealth.org.uk/publications/fundamental-facts-about-mental-health-2015) published statistics showing that 70 million sick days each year in the UK are taken for mental health problems. This would place additional pressure on the services if nurses were off sick more often.
1.7. Pro: It is against the law to discriminate against people with a mental health condition.
1.8. Pro: Patients will feel more comfortable talking to a nurse who they know understands what they are going through - in the same way that Peer Support Workers are already employed - especially with sensitive subjects like self-harm.
1.8.1. Con: This varies from person to person. Some may find it irritating to have somebody who over-identifies with their issues when they just want to be left alone.
1.9. Con: It could undermine the therapeutic relationship between a nurse and a patient if that nurse is later admitted to a psychiatric ward where they had worked.
1.10. Con: It does not protect confidentiality for the nurse if they are being treated by familiar professionals, or in the same environment as their own patients, about the state of their own mental health.
1.10.1. Con: Medical professionals, mental health workers included, often choose a place for treatment different from the one where they work for this exact reason.