Discussion Title: Should Senator Al Franken be removed from office?

1. Senator Al Franken should resign or be removed from office, specifically because of allegations of sexual harassment.
1.1. Pro: Allowing him to remain in office sends a message that his behaviour is perfectly acceptable for any man, which leads to further normalisation of mysoginist behaviour.
1.1.1. Con: This argument assumes that young males are unable to measure their role model's actions against commonly held moral standards.This argument also implies that damning repercussions are acceptable for some allegations, for the sake of perception, without any consideration for due process.
1.1.2. Con: What's perfectly acceptable is that he engaged the accuser/victim with an apology and agreed to undergo an ethics investigation. Indeed, an example not being set by a majority of accused, most of whom were not "professional comedians" at the time of the incident.
1.1.3. Con: Framing the proper response as one of two choices \(removal/non-removal from office\) represents a false dichotomy.  Other types of punishment exist and may be more appropriate.
1.2. Pro: Franken's behavior was unbecoming of a US Senator.
1.2.1. Con: Franken's actions took place prior to becoming a Senator.
1.2.2. Pro: It is important that Senators are held to a very high standard of behavior and integrity
1.2.3. Pro: Franken’s behavior shows poor judgement.

A key function of holding public office is to make good decisions for their constituents.
1.3. Con: Removal from office is a disproportionate punishment for the offense.
1.3.1. Con: We must draw the line somewhere, and drawing it on THIS side of "keep your hands to yourself" is completely reasonable.  He doesn't need to have committed a crime to be unworthy of serving as a US Senator.
1.3.2. Pro: Sexual misconduct is fairly common in the US. Franken's actions were of a lesser gravity than other prominent figures.
1.3.2.1. Con: The fact sexual misconduct is common in the US is not a justification for permitting them, it is a problem that needs to be addressed and eradicated.
1.3.2.1.1. Pro: If murder were common in the US and someone simply stabbed someone without killing them, the stabbing would not go unpunished merely because there is a crime epidemic in the country.
1.3.3. Pro: An assessment of the perpetrator's future danger to society often mitigate the punishment in our system of criminal law. It would make sense to treat these kinds of things similarly.
1.3.3.1. Con: We do not need a series of victims of sexual harassment to deem someone guilt of sexual harassment. A single victim is one too many
1.3.3.1.1. Con: The number of claims made against a person is not the only meaningful variable that should be considered in these cases.  Other variables, such as the specificity of the accusation and the context in which the behavior occurred should also be considered.
1.3.3.2. Con: Admitting to a crime does not acquit you of that crime.
1.3.3.2.1. Con: Technically speaking he didn't commit a crime. There was no legal charge or anything.
1.3.3.3. Pro: Franken's behaviour is not part of a broader pattern and there is no reason to think he is a threat to women.
1.3.4. Pro: Inappropriate sexual comedy is rude but tolerable, especially with an apology. It doesn't rise to the same seriousness as actual sexual assault on women and children.
1.3.4.1. Con: It was evidently not truly tolerable for the victim, and their opinion is the one that matters.
1.3.4.1.1. Con: Tweeden [accepted his apology](http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/al-franken-accuser-accepts-his-apology/article/2640931) and has specifically said she is not seeking his removal from office.
1.3.4.1.1.1. Pro: No one has a right to more outrage than the victim.  If the victim has made peace with it, and if there are no legal charges, then he should be allowed to remain.
1.3.5. Pro: -> See 1.1.3.
1.4. Pro: Supporting his remaining in office creates a double-standard for anyone who then calls for other politicians accused of sexual harassment or assault, such as Donald Trump or Roy Moore, to step down.
1.4.1. Con: There is a huge difference between Franken's school-boy antics \(pretending to touch her breasts without actually touching them\) and Trump's "p**sy-grabbing" or Moore's pedophilia.  It is a false equivalency to claim that what Franken did was on par with what Trump or Moore have been accused of doing.
1.4.2. Pro: It muddies the water as to which type of sexual harassment is acceptable and which is not. To avoid further incidents of this kind, it would be preferable to denounce and castigate all forms of sexual harassment instead.
1.4.2.1. Con: All forms of sexual harassment are unacceptable, but accepting responsibility, cooperating with possible inquiries, and acknowledging the hypocrisy he has exhibited show a degree of understanding that is vastly different than refusing to admit fault, threatening to sue victims, and picking and choosing which victims to believe based on the political party of the accused.
1.4.3. Con: Allowing a politician to remain in office after a series of minor incidents, after said politician apologized for them and the victim declared that she desired no further action, does not create a double standard for more severe cases.
1.5. Con: Al Franken seemed to have acted appropriately to the accusations by speaking out publicly rather than trying to silence the issue.
1.5.1. Con: This only happened after images surfaced exposing his actions.
1.5.2. Con: Franken's apology was not sincere.
1.5.2.1. Pro: If his apology was sincere, it would have come long before he got called out for his behavior.
1.5.2.2. Pro: Franken thought his behavior was funny, and he said so.
1.5.3. Pro: Demanding that someone step down on the basis that they have wronged someone after they apologized and the victim declared that they want no further repercussions is a witch hunt, and entirely unacceptable in a democracy.
1.5.3.1. Con: Then where do we draw the line?  Senators can "wrong" anyone they like, and simply apologize for it in order to keep their position?  That's not right.  They need to be held to a very high standard of behavior and integrity.  We already gave up on insisting that they tell the truth, let's not give up on demanding appropriate behavior at all times.  They're just politicians.  They're supposed to work for us, and they are ALL replaceable.  Every last one.
1.5.3.2. Pro: -> See 1.3.4.1.1.
1.5.3.3. Pro: The fact that he has apologized means that he is perfectly aware that his behavior is NOT considered acceptable.
1.5.3.3.1. Con: If men continue to be awarded positions of power and influence despite these incidents on the basis of a public apology, men will continue to behave in such a manner in the knowledge that, if caught out, such an apology will suffice.
1.5.3.3.2. Con: Only his political career will be destroyed.  He still has a comedy-writing career which made him a millionaire, so it's not like his family is going to starve or need to start going to the food bank.  This isn't some guy working at the post office living check-to-check and making ends meet with a credit card.  His net worth is estimated at $9 million, which is significantly more than his constituents'.  He is replaceable, like ALL politicians.
1.5.3.4. Pro: Allowing him to remain in office sends the message that such behavior is not acceptable, but also not severe enough to destroy a career over night.
1.6. Con: There are no legal grounds for his dismissal.
1.6.1. Pro: Allegations alone are insufficient to remove someone from a position; if someone is seeking amends for any crime, they should pursue them through the well established legal system.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Innocent till proven guilty should still mean something and is damaged by removing people from their jobs based on claims without process and judgement
1.6.2. Pro: Sexual misconduct claims that surface outside the statute of limitations should hold no official bearing on an alleged perpetrator's status of employment or candidacy for a position. Any legitimate grass-roots movement to oust a sitting legislator should take appropriate legal routes such as referendum or votes cast in future elections.
1.7. Con: Sexual harassment incidents have no bearing on the political qualities of Al Franken in office.
1.7.1. Con: Sexual harassment incidents are an indication of an individual's belief system, moral conduct and attitudes towards women. These are all important decision-making factors that implicitly dictate his decisions in office.
1.7.1.1. Con: Franken has a background as a comedian and the distributed image has clearly comical attitudes rather than a sexual connotation.
1.7.1.1.1. Con: The basis for the supposedly 'comical' joke made in the picture is the sexualisation of the woman in the absence of her knowledge. The connotations are therefore clearly sexual.
1.7.1.1.2. Con: Just because Franken's background is comedic, it does not logically follow that his actions did not carry connotations of sexual harrassment.
1.7.2. Con: A Senator must represent constituents equally.  If he does not value women enough to treat them respectfully, even some of the time, they cannot trust him to represent them.
1.7.2.1. Con: Franken was elected with [65%](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Franken#2014_elections) or 35% ahead of his second contestant. Even with all women voting for the second contestant Franken would likely have won.
1.7.2.2. Pro: Part of Al Franken's public popularity hinged on his advocacy for [women's rights](https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/d3d9gq/al-franken-resign). His new-found hypocrisy delegitimises his position for he has ceased to represent the morals he previously professed to have.
1.7.3. Pro: Franken was elected [twice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Franken#2008_elections). This gives him and his constitutency quite some influence when deciding on legislative proposals.
1.7.3.1. Pro: The longer one is in Congress the bigger the professional network.
1.7.3.2. Pro: The longer in congress the more knowledge an MP aquires on the formal and informal procedures.
1.7.4. Pro: If people decide that Franken is no longer up to the job, he simply won't get re-elected. That is how democratic election systems work.
1.7.4.1. Pro: Politicians work for us and can be easily replaced by people who properly represent us.
1.8. Con: He was democratically elected by the people of Minnesota. To remove him from office is to remove their voice.
1.9. Con: The allegations against Franken are spurious and have a shocking lack of evidence.
1.9.1. Pro: Allegations by themselves are not a cause for removal from one's position, only confirmed allegations after investigation.