Discussion Title: Should Vigilantes be Permitted to Organise Themselves when Police Cannot Keep Up?

1. Vigilantes should be permitted to organize themselves when Police cannot keep up with violent criminals [goo.gl](https://goo.gl/forms/7F1hQN5F5ajyFvFF3)
1.1. Con: If the state is failing in its primary role, 'vigilantes' should direct their ire at the state, not criminals. So yes, you need to create a militia, but they need to be revolutionaries, not substitute police.
1.1.1. Pro: If this Band of Vigilantes is organized and supported by law they are functionally identical to the police, in which case why not just join traditional law enforcement. If they are acting outside the law and are relatively "unorganized" they are themselves hypocritical criminals.
1.2. Pro: Instead of wasting time with minor infractions, vigilantes can go after serial killers, rapists or even if on an international level, dictators like Kim Jong Un or Bashar Al Assad.
1.2.1. Con: Vigilantes with no training are going to be no match for the international community.
1.2.2. Con: This sounds like a way of inviting reigning anarchy.
1.2.3. Con: A group of civilians \(or non-state militia\) does not have the right to judge another civilian, being it a suspect of a crime or not.
1.3. Con: This is against the law of most developed countries such as the US, Canada, France, Germany, Mexico, Spain, etc, etc.
1.4. Pro: Members can be ex military or police which would be more qualifying than random civilians.
1.4.1. Con: Ex-military/police tend to be more problematic than active police/military.
1.5. Con: This could endanger innocent people who might accidentally get in the way.
1.6. Pro: They can be privately funded and not cost the country any money, ex. how [SpaceX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SpaceX) is funded.
1.6.1. Con: With private funding comes private interests. Civil security would become \(even more\) selective, biased and unethical.
1.7. Pro: Communities would feel safer knowing that a group has members of protectors hiding in plain sight at their community.
1.7.1. Con: Communities would feel unsafe knowing that a band of unaccountable random un-vetted people who are presumably armed are hiding in plain site at their community.
1.7.2. Pro: The [Black Shadow](http://www.cracked.com/article_16612_6-real-life-vigilantes-crazier-than-batman.html) were a group of vigilantes who targeted one of the most ruthless gangs known: MS13, who are known to be savage criminals. This group proves the usefulness of vigilantes in going after people who are known to be public menaces.
1.8. Con: It is morally wrong to decide punishment without the judicial system.
1.9. Con: This would possibly cause a spike in crime from people who might try to combat and take down the vigilante group.