Discussion Title: Should Decisions Be Made Technocratically?

1. It is time to shift towards technocratic capitalism.
1.1. Pro: Military actions would be decided by groups who are highly intelligent and have a deep understanding of all aspects of the countries and issues involved in each situation, as opposed to having these knowledgeable people simply advise leaders who may have little or no previous knowledge about the area in question.
1.1.1. Con: Technocrats will not suffer the consequences of war, unlike the taxpayer, and therefore are more likely to engage in warfare.
1.1.1.1. Con: A leader of their field is still a citizen who is paying taxes. Additionally, people who have the patience and foresight to become a leader in their field are not necessarily more likely to lose their cool and start wars which could damage future goals of good relations, stability, collaboration, trade, and the open sharing of new scientific discoveries.
1.1.2. Pro: Other countries could have more trust in the goals and reasoning of a government that makes its decisions based on data and science.  This could allow for less military build ups around the world.
1.2. Con: Restrictions on what qualifies an individual for public office - for example, BA vs MA vs DR, or even combinations of degrees and business success - would lead the country down a more set path then one where anyone who is popular can lead.
1.2.1. Con: There is no evidence that a more "set path" is less desirable than a more erratic one.
1.2.1.1. Con: A path that is open to change in any direction has the most room to adapt to new situations. Once a path becomes more narrow, the adaptations become more narrow. Someone could imagine some type of future where shifting to some less logical stance might somehow lead to an overall better end outcome.  Like a random mutation in nature.
1.3. Pro: The political process would have more clearly defined goals and road maps to reach those goals. This means resources could be used more efficiently.
1.3.1. Con: Political processes are often unpredictable. Roadmaps would miss their targets, just like in a planned economy.
1.3.1.1. Con: This is not necessarily true. If we assume that the goal would be for humans to flourish, then breaking down that goal into mental, physical, social, economic, and environmental health, along with any other categories, would give a clear path based on research and data in all of those areas instead of one driven by personal views, religious ideology, and emotional bias. So, it would be more stable, direct and efficient.
1.4. Pro: It is a much more predictable and stable system.
1.4.1. Con: Technocrats can easily override public opinion and therewith make sweeping changes.
1.4.1.1. Con: It could move more quickly. But, the direction would stay the same instead of shifting, back-tracking, and using funds to undo what was just done by the last administration.
1.4.2. Pro: The transition to a more AI driven decision making process would come more easily.
1.5. Con: The citizens might not want what is best for them as described by their mental, physical, social, economic, and environmental health.
1.5.1. Pro: People might not trust the system.
1.5.2. Pro: The types of answers that come from research may end up being different and maybe even counter intuitive to the answers that come from emotions and "common" sense.
1.5.2.1. Con: This is the whole point. Because science is an objective point of view it is in line with reality in contrast to emotions and "common sense" which are more often flawed or plain untrue. It is better to base our decisions on science than "common sense" which science has proven to be untrue.
1.5.2.2. Pro: Flawed education and data collection systems would still cause biased and flawed decisions.
1.5.2.3. Pro: Science may well suggest necessary solutions contrary to the aims \(or even the mere existence\) of the humans it seeks to govern.
1.6. Pro: The primary goal of our leaders would be to solve problems rather than to appease the public or get reelected. This would lead to more progress and less pandering.
1.6.1. Pro: The people in charge of each area of government would have to hold qualifications in that field. With a deeper understanding of the world around them they would make better decisions.
1.6.1.1. Con: Being qualified based purely on skill and knowledge is no insurance that the best decisions are made.
A new system should also take other things into account. For instance understanding of:
The relevant law
The relevant economics
The relevant morality
1.6.1.1.1. Con: Each of those things are fields of study with people who are heads of those fields and have spent their lifetime learning about, discussing, performing experiments to test ideas, and writing about or teaching the results. In a system where each decision that comes up is decided on by the leaders in their fields, all of those aspects would be accounted for more fully then by people who were simply liked by the masses.
1.6.1.2. Pro: People's skills and knowledge would outweigh their public image.
1.6.2. Pro: Democracy is an important tool to make sure the general population has a voice in the world they live in, but how it works needs a complete overhaul. People are too distracted by the personalities involved when it comes to voting. We should stop electing people and start voting for ideas / the change we want, without any characters or personalities attached to them. Set the goals, then hire the best people to achieve those ideas.
1.7. Con: Science does not hold all the answers. Moral questions can only be decided upon by society as a whole rather than a small group of "experts." A technocracy is less fit to handle ethical judgments than a democracy.
1.7.1. Con: Morality exists in the world. It is the mental, physical, social, economic, environmental, etc rights and wrongs for health in each aspect of our species as individuals and as a group. All of the aspects of morality in any species can be studied.
1.7.1.1. Con: This is debatable.
1.7.2. Pro: Technical knowledge doesn't guarantee good performance in administrative roles.
1.7.2.1. Con: This argument could also be said for people without technical knowledge. It is fair to assume that qualifications on the subjects specialists have sway in would be helpful and not harmful.
1.8. Con: This argument assumes the problem is democratic decision making. While it is definitely a problem, capitalism is a primary driver behind increasing complexity--the scale of which the world exhibits is beyond the comprehension of even the most well qualified and capable experts. With present technologies and capabilities technocrats cannot model or predict all the ripple effects their decisions have in a complex system, so the challenges complexity and capitalism present would continue unabated.
1.8.1. Con: This appears to imply "The challenge to good physical health is that there is a body to take care of in the first place. A body is too complex for any one physician to understand. As long as there are bodies we will have this problem...". Hiring specialists to solve a problem is always better. The more complex the problem, the more specialists you may need to hire. But, there is never a time when hiring non-specialists would help more.
1.8.2. Pro: The world is too complex for our current version of democracy. Democracy should not be abandoned, it should be reworked to distribute power differently, putting emphasis on knowledge, skill, and merit, while still allowing laymen to have influence.
1.9. Con: People might feel less represented.
1.9.1. Pro: Most people want to feel that their government is run by someone who they can relate to and who is protecting their interests.
1.9.2. Pro: -> See 1.5.1.
1.9.3. Pro: It could be difficult to explain the decisions being made to the general public.
1.9.4. Pro: Education of the general masses, which was originally put into place to ensure an informed voter base, could become less important if informed voters are unnecessary in the political process.
1.10. Pro: Each decision could be broken down into clear cause and effect reasoning.
1.10.1. Pro: The data supporting each decision could be outlined so that the public could see what caused the decision to be made.