Discussion Title: Should Doctors Be Allowed To Remove Healthy Body Parts To Replace With Artificial Ones?

1. Doctors should be allowed to remove healthy body parts to replace with artificial ones.
1.1. Con: The benefits of artificial limbs or organs are uncertain.
1.1.1. Con: Not yet; this is partially speculative, on the assumption that technology will continue to develop in [prosthetic enhancement](https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=prosthetic+enhancements&oq=prosthetic+enh&aqs=chrome.1.69i57j0l3.5119j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8).
1.1.2. Pro: The technology is still in a state of relative infancy.
1.2. Pro: Cosmetic surgery is allowed, even though it can cause complications and the patients are usually healthy. Augmentation surgery should therefore be allowed.
1.2.1. Pro: It would be hypocritical of the health and beauty industry to do otherwise.
1.2.2. Con: Those undergoing cosmetic surgery will still be assessed for eligibility and can be rejected if it is deemed too risky or detrimental; the same laws can be applied to augmentation procedures.
1.2.3. Con: Cosmetic enhancement and augmentation are very different objectives. One is superficial where the other is altering large portions of the body.
1.3. Con: The amputation of a healthy limb or organ causes ethical problems and breaks the Hippocratic Oath.
1.3.1. Pro: It cannot be construed as 'harmless' to remove a limb, regardless of the wishes of the patient.
1.3.1.1. Con: The harm will be undone by the addition of the new limb, making it ethical. Every incision in a surgery is a temporary harm, but the benefits resulting from the procedure make it ethical.
1.3.2. Con: Since the intent is to help, not to harm, this does not break the Hippocratic Oath.
1.4. Pro: It should be the doctor's decision whether they want to perform the surgery or not.
1.4.1. Pro: This is already true of cosmetic surgeons, who can and do decline surgery to patients who may be taking risks or have uncertain motives.
1.4.2. Con: Doctors may have different motives for whether they consider a patient's request reasonable or not.
1.5. Con: This could cause social issues, as this would only be available to the very rich.
1.5.1. Con: Over time, the prices are likely to alter as the procedure becomes more commonplace; this is a temporary issue only.
1.6. Pro: Allowing this surgery would increase human capabilities in various lines of work.
1.6.1. Pro: The concept of augmented humans, or cyborgs, has until now been the preserve of science fiction: now we are able to visualise a world where this is not only feasible but expected.
1.6.2. Con: External wearable equipment would function just as well for the majority of work purposes.
1.6.3. Pro: In sports, artificial legs could soon outclass the running capabilities of a human leg.
1.6.4. Con: In order to compete, people could be forced to undergo augmentation surgery.
1.6.4.1. Pro: This is already seen in the beauty and fashion industries: those involved feel compelled to look a certain way, undergoing surgeries from breast enhancements to botox.