Discussion Title: Should There Be a Global Evaluation/Rating System for Students' Performances?

1. There should be a global evaluation system for students' performances
1.1. Con: The perception of the[role of schools](https://work.chron.com/tasks-responsibilities-elementary-school-teachers-3868.html) would change towards pure productivity enhancement. Aspects like social education etc. would be pushed into the background.
1.1.1. Pro: As it is, the constant focus of school league tables on academic progress ignores the standard of pastoral care or non-academic subjects, which means students will be less well-rounded.
1.1.2. Pro: [Arts and culture suffers](https://www.theguardian.com/education/2015/feb/17/arts-and-culture-systematically-removed-from-uk-education-system) when children are dissuaded from creative subjects in school, as tends to happen when the focus is exclusively on academia.
1.2. Pro: In times of globalization the option for companies to compare applicants from all over the world based on one specific rationing system could increase equality between candidates.
1.2.1. Pro: If a single metric could be determined it also makes it far fairer, by assessing universally desirable traits and balancing them against each other.
1.2.1.1. Con: Some traits may be prioritised - say, science and mathematics - over arts, which is problematic.
1.2.1.2. Con: This could unfairly discriminate against those who wish to engage in practical subjects \(woodwork, construction, home economics\).
1.2.2. Con: This wouldn't necessarily help with equality; certain candidates could still be discriminated against for other reasons, even if their global evaluation score is equal.
1.2.3. Pro: The evaluation would be independent from gender, appearance and other possible factors of inequality.
1.3. Pro: Every student would have the option to check their performance on any test at any time.
1.3.1. Pro: This gives added incentive for students to work harder.
1.3.2. Con: The obsession with grading could have a seriously detrimental effect on [children's self-esteem](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/education/educationopinion/11785585/Grade-obsession-is-damaging-pupil-self-esteem.html).
1.4. Con: The student's profile would still depend on the teachers who update the data base.
1.4.1. Con: Every test could be standardized and executed using technologies such as the internet or computers.
1.4.1.1. Con: The more standards and inflexible rating systems one applies, the more students will fail to fit into said system. \(Based on personal differences and individuality\)
1.5. Con: Educational possibilities differ from [nation to nation](https://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/data-mine/2015/01/28/us-education-still-separate-and-unequal), still favoring wealthy countries.
1.5.1. Con: This is true, but a task that ought to be addressed: it would be a useful tool to see countries where education is failing or lacking, compared to wealthier countries.
1.5.2. Pro: Certain subjects are more likely to be favoured in other countries, too; all countries have controversy over subjects like bible studies, which would be even worse translated to a global scale.
1.5.3. Pro: The divergence within nations \(from school to school\) already is too massive to attach a global rating system.
1.6. Pro: Parents could get the opportunity to hear about learning difficulties not just at the end of the year
1.6.1. Con: This could be done without a global evaluation system, just by improving communication between parents and teachers.
1.7. Con: The pressure on children would grow immensely.
1.7.1. Con: A global evaluation system might follow the lowest common denominator where most children exceed the average score.
1.7.1.1. Con: One wouldn't have to base the rating system on the lowest common denominator. A global average would work just fine. \(And wouldn't include the issue of most children exceeding it\)
1.7.2. Pro: It could be humiliating to have bad marks published for open consumption.
1.7.2.1. Pro: This might exacerbate bullying.
1.7.2.2. Con: The fear of being humiliated could motivate students to study more effectively.
1.7.2.2.1. Con: This is an unethical and cruel way to work with any children.
1.7.3. Pro: Bullying would be potentially rampant as students could see who rates where, and victimise people accordingly.
1.7.4. Con: If it is normalised, it is unlikely to be questioned unduly; the pressure may exist while it is first introduced but ebb over time.