Discussion Title: Should Racial Profiling Be Banned?

1. Racial profiling by law enforcement should be banned.
1.1. Con: Even if racial profiling is wrong, a ban on racial profiling is likely to be counterproductive.
1.1.1. Con: Since racial profiling is morally unacceptable, it ought to be illegal regardless of the consequences of banning it.
1.1.1.1. Con: Morality is relative and personal; not all 'morally unacceptable' behaviours are illegal, and vice versa. A legal system is not exclusively bound to subjective morality.
1.1.1.2. Pro: The state should not allow public officials to engage in immoral activities during the course of their duties.
1.1.1.2.1. Pro: The privileges and powers granted to employees of the state should be counterbalanced by an obligation and responsibility to act in a moral and equitable manner.
1.1.1.3. Con: Governments operate on consolidating various issues within society and finding solutions that provide overall benefit. If the consequences of an event are too harsh then governments must operate on a cost benefit analysis instead of making rash moral decisions with disregard for consequences.
1.1.1.4. Con: It is worse for victims to suffer from criminal activities than to inconvenience innocent suspects.
1.1.1.4.1. Con: This is not inherently true. Which is worse depends on both the harm prevented to the crime victim and the harm caused by detention.
1.1.2. Pro: Banning racial profiling will simply cause police to more heavily profile on the basis of other characteristics, like a person's apparent socioeconomic status.
1.1.2.1. Pro: Profiling is advantageous for police, because it saves them time and effort. If they are unable to try one type of profiling, they will shift to other, equally effective types.
1.1.2.1.1. Con: If there are other types of equally effective profiling that are not based on immutable characteristics, then they would be preferable.
1.1.2.1.2. Con: Profiling based on irrelevant characteristics is disadvantageous to police, because it can cause them to overlook more important information.
1.1.2.2. Con: Police officers should make decisions based on information other than a person's race.
1.1.3. Pro: Racial profiling is horrible, but a ban might not be the most effective method of combating its effects. It would be more effective to ensure law enforcement receive intensive and comprehensive anti-bias training.
1.1.3.1. Con: Anti-bias training doesn't [work](https://hbr.org/2012/03/diversity-training-doesnt-work).
1.1.3.1.1. Con: The source you cited discusses diversity training, not anti-bias training. Whereas the training the article discusses consists of "training people to be more accepting of diversity," anti-bias training deals with training people to recognize their own biases and prejudices and communicate with people rather than categorizing them.
1.1.4. Con: Considering the deaths associated around race in relation to law enforcement, it would give much hope to communities where the attitude is that 'police are not there to help non-white people', declaring no race is different, and that all races deserve to be safe in public is not counterproductive by any means.
1.1.4.1. Con: [More whites are killed than racial minorities](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/apr/21/police-kill-more-whites-than-blacks-but-minority-d/) by law enforcement in the United States.
1.1.5. Pro: Enforcing a ban on racial profiling is very difficult.
1.1.5.1. Pro: It is almost impossible to tell whether specific arrests are cases of racial profiling, since it is just the officer's word against the arrestee's.
1.1.5.1.1. Pro: Distinguishing, in a particular case, between profiling on the basis of race and profiling on the basis of other characteristics is very difficult.
1.1.5.1.1.1. Pro: Correlation between race and other predictors would have to be accounted for.

If, for instance, poverty and race are perceived to be highly correlated then profiling by race or social stature would be very hard to tell apart.
1.1.5.1.1.1.1. Pro: Race is also correlated with living in a high-crime neighbourhood, and is therefore plausibly correlated with various other predictors of criminality.
1.1.5.1.2. Pro: Racial profiling by a police officer exists only if a decision that it occurred is made by a third party. Assuming the officer denies having racially profiled in his testimony, requires the third party to infer the officer's true state of mind at the time the alleged profiling occurred. In all courts testifying as to the contents of another person's mind is not admissible. A valid legal decision declaring racial profiling could never be arrived at, hence it is invalid to legally ban.
1.1.5.1.2.1. Con: As with every other crime requiring a culpable mental state, one's intent may be inferred from one's actions and the circumstances.
1.1.5.1.2.2. Con: Just because something is difficult to prove does not mean it cannot be banned.
1.1.5.2. Pro: It is very difficult to tell from aggregate statistics \(for example, a police department's arrest records\) whether racial profiling is driving a racial disparity in arrest statistics.
1.1.5.2.1. Pro: A racial disparity in arrests could be due to racial profiling, or it could be due to statistically unobservable differences in the behaviour of racial groups in that department's area.
1.1.5.2.1.1. Con: If there are differences in the behaviour of racial groups in an area, those differences are likely to be driven by statistically observable characteristics \(for example, poverty rates\).
1.1.5.2.2. Pro: Simply showing that certain races are statistically the subject of law enforcement action does not necessarily show bias as there are many confounding factors: the law enforcement action may be a legitimate response to actual crimes which occur unevenly across communities, or other non-racial factors that are associated with race, such as socioeconomic factors which predispose to crime, or negative attitudes towards police in certain communities.
1.1.5.3. Con: A ban only needs to be successfully enforced in a few cases in order to sufficiently deter police officers from engaging in the practice.
1.1.5.3.1. Con: Police officers tend to serve for 20+ years; those who are very accustomed to racial profiling over decades of service are unlikely to be that changeable on something that has become a norm.
1.1.5.4. Con: Enforcing a ban on racial profiling is not functionally different to enforcing antidiscrimination laws for businesses.
1.1.5.5. Pro: Every criminal who is caught who can and will claim racial profiling as a ploy to deflect their prosecution off the rails.
1.1.5.5.1. Con: They already do this, and prosecutions continue.
1.1.5.6. Pro: It's hard to ban an individual's behavior that is created from their upbringing. Training would be more effective.
1.1.5.7. Pro: Racial Profiling can't be banned, because it can't be defined or proven. Unless the cop says "I was profiling that person because of their race", nobody can possibly hope to prove that they have done so.
1.1.5.8. Pro: Racial profiling is based off primordial human categorization techniques. Cavemen would categorize x species has horns and is therefore hostile and should be treated as such. Racial profiling is an extension of that mindset. Based on past racial tensions it has become deeply ingrained into people's minds and banning it would not solve the problems that arise as a result of it.
1.1.5.9. Pro: A ban would need to be enforced by precisely the people who usually act as enforcers; the practicalities are challenging.
1.1.5.9.1. Con: The ban which is already in place is usually enforced by lawyers filling lawsuits alleging civil rights violations.
1.1.5.9.2. Con: Police integrity commissions and administrative oversight bodies exist for this very reason.
1.1.6. Pro: There is already rampant distrust of law enforcement in the modern world. Establishing further control would only further ostracize the law enforcement community.
1.1.6.1. Pro: There was a [lot of](https://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Justice/2016/0830/Why-police-are-pushing-back-on-body-cameras) resistance to body cams being implemented on law enforcement in the United States as police saw it as an infringement of their autonomy and duties.
1.1.6.2. Pro: Faith in law enforcement is a variable thing regardless; many groups and individuals feel targeted for a wide spectrum of reasons \(i.e. women who are sexually assaulted, groups from certain areas or socioeconomic backgrounds, etc\). Banning a potentially legitimate resource is not the way to combat such issues; more holistic reform is needed.
1.1.6.2.1. Con: The best way to reduce feelings of victimization and targeting amongst such minorities is to stop victimizing and targeting such minorities.
1.1.6.3. Con: If the public knew that law enforcement officials were no longer using racial profiling, they would be more likely to trust and support law enforcement.
1.1.6.3.1. Con: Racial profiling is already illegal, members of the public frequently suspect law enforcement officers of using it anyway.
1.1.6.3.2. Con: This is difficult, if not impossible, to verify; the mistrust may simply play out in other areas, as police inevitably start to profile based on different characteristics \(age, gender, socioeconomic status, etc\).
1.1.7. Pro: Banning racial profiling may only further increase racial tensions.
1.1.7.1. Pro: It takes years for racism to be organically reduced and for people to have a change of opinions. A radical policy that seeks to speed up this process is too drastic of a change being forced about people.
1.1.7.1.1. Con: It is hardly a radical proposal to suggest that law enforcement treat minorities with the same respect afforded to others.
1.1.7.2. Pro: Racial tensions are deeply ingrained within society. Racist people might simply see banning racial profiling as being a move as a result of minorities influencing the government and judge minorities even more harshly as a result of the proposed change.
1.1.7.2.1. Pro: Many people [oppose](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2805001/) quotas and resent minorities for occupying positions of power or those within educational institutions.
1.1.7.2.1.1. Con: Oppositions to quotas generally stem from the loss of a benefit. Certain individuals lose positions to minorities when quotas are enforced. Ending racial profiling would not remove a benefit from anyone and as such is unlikely to generate backlash.
1.1.7.2.2. Pro: Simply because oppression and racism exists within society does not mean many people accept it or make moves to change it. Affirmative actions by the government are observed with scrutiny and skepticism as an attempt of upsetting the current balance of society.
1.1.7.2.2.1. Con: Affirmative action and similar measures are viewed with skepticism because they are another form of racism. Prohibiting racial profiling does not discriminate against anyone.
1.1.7.2.3. Con: Racist people are likely to be opposed to anything which promotes racial equality. That doesn't mean we should stop promoting racial equality.
1.1.7.2.4. Con: There is no reason for society to pander to the desires of racists.
1.1.7.3. Pro: Racial profiling is a result of racial problems within society. Attacking the result of racism -  racial profiling as opposed to solving racism itself will do nothing to alleviate racial tensions. On the contrary, it will only provide another focal point for existing racial tensions to be centered upon.
1.1.7.3.1. Con: Part of dealing with the underlying problem of racism is not continuing to promote racist behavior like racial profiling.
1.1.7.4. Pro: Law enforcement might seek to counter the government's affirmative action against racism by taking their anger out on minorities under the guise of routine law enforcement.
1.1.7.4.1. Con: Law enforcement will be less able to selectively target minorities with impunity once they are banned from profiling based on a person's race.
1.1.7.4.2. Con: Forcing law enforcement to express their racism in a more obvious and visible form is a benefit.
1.1.7.4.2.1. Pro: More obvious forms of racism are easier to detect, prevent and punish.
1.1.7.4.2.2. Pro: More overt expressions of racism are likely to generate greater societal awareness, discourse and change around the issue of racism.
1.1.7.4.3. Con: Racial profiling already amounts to taking prejudices out on minorities under the guise of legitimate law enforcement.
1.1.8. Con: Such a ban could promote a sense of acceptance and then more peaceful relationships between individuals.
1.1.9. Pro: There is no such thing as racial profiling. Profiling is a science, and there is no risk assessment system that would use race as a red flag for a profile. It requires extensive training, which the police who claim they are profiling have never had. What police are doing is called discrimination. That is already illegal, and the civil rights laws against it should be enforced. A ban on racial profiling wouldn't stop the discrimination that happens, but might inhibit legitimate profiling.
1.1.10. Con: Even if such a ban would be counterproductive it would still be morally right to ban racial profiling. Let justice be done even if the sky falls.
1.1.11. Pro: -> See 1.1.7.4.
1.1.12. Con: Banning racial profiling is good as a signal of disapproval of the practice, regardless of its actual consequences.
1.1.12.1. Pro: The state should take a leading position in deciding which enforcement practices are permissible and which are not.
1.1.12.2. Con: A policy which has counterproductive consequences is not worth pursuing purely as a signal. The value of a signal is outweighed by the disvalue of the adverse consequences of the policy.
1.2. Pro: Racial profiling is already illegal in the U.S., reversing this would damage the relationship between law enforcement and the community regardless of whether or not the practice were endorsed by law enforcement.
1.2.1. Con: Racial profiling is [legal](http://www.dw.com/en/is-racial-profiling-illegal-depends-on-where-you-live/a-36988027) in many jurisdictions, and not expressly forbidden in many others.
1.2.2. Pro: If a stop is based on nothing more than ethnicity, and no additional context, or suspicious indicators are noted, then this is not reasonable.  In this instances, officers should be trained to apply statistics and behavior analysis to reduce the waste of time and effort, and  increase their impact to the community they are supporting.  The bottom line is if a stop is made and an officer can't articulate the basis for the stop, it violates the 4th amendment, when occurring in the U.S.
1.2.3. Pro: Racial profiling is already banned under the equal protection clause of the US constitution.
1.3. Pro: When racial profiling is socially accepted, it legitimizes the racist behavior of law enforcers.
1.3.1. Pro: If racial profiling is legitimate, then it arguably follows on similar grounds that disproportionate use of force against racial minorities is legitimate.
1.3.1.1. Pro: If racial profiling is legitimate because racial minorities are more likely to commit crimes, then arguably, using force more often against racial minorities is justified if they are more likely to be carrying a weapon.
1.3.1.1.1. Con: Racial minorities are [not more likely](http://www.nber.org/papers/w24238) to be carrying a weapon.
1.3.1.1.1.1. Pro: Gun control regulations have traditionally been used as a racist tool to [disarm](https://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/features/2017/10/gun-control-racist-present-171006135904199.html) minorities.
1.3.1.1.1.1.1. Con: This is untrue of [the UK](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Firearms_policy_in_the_United_Kingdom), [Australia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gun_laws_in_Australia), and many others. It cannot be rightly called a tradition; it is perhaps true in specific places, not not universally.
1.3.1.2. Con: The legitimacy of racial profiling is a result of its efficacy in reducing crime. The use of disproportionate force is not legitimate because there is no reason to believe this would serve the public interest.
1.3.1.3. Con: There is no reason to assume this whatsoever. They are entirely separate entities. 'Profiling' is passive: "targeting individuals for suspicion of crime based on the individual's race, ethnicity, religion or national origin". Acting abusively, with disproportionate violence, does not need to follow.
1.3.1.3.1. Con: Targeting individuals for enforcement action is not passive.
1.3.2. Pro: It should definitely be banned, because it reduces the actions of individuals who lead their lives positively and crime-free to the actions of a minority in their racial/ethnical group. It also promotes racism within the law enforcement. Racial profiling targets only individuals of colour, more specifically the black/Hispanic/Asian communities. I do not see law enforcement profiling mass school shooters as white young boys, yet they are the ones committing majority of these crimes.
1.3.3. Pro: Racial profiling promotes racist attitudes within the police force, which creates an unsafe environment for a person of colour/a minority.
1.3.3.1. Pro: There are more and more reports everyday of people of colour being shot dead or treated violently during an arrest for no other reason than just an officers suspicion alone, racial profiling creates a unsafe environment for both officer and citizens. [thoughtco.com](https://www.thoughtco.com/racial-profiling-police-brutality-against-hispanics-2834820) on police brutality and racial profiling [m.huffpost.com](https://m.huffpost.com/us/entry/5692705?guccounter=1) on racial profiling and deaths by being shot.
1.3.3.1.1. Con: The cited sources did not include examples of actions based on officers' suspicions alone. In the examples which were not too vague to comment on, there were additional facts on which the officers could base their actions.
1.3.3.2. Con: Racial profiling is the result and not the cause - the old adage applies here; doing the same thing over and over and getting the same result but expecting a different one. If the goal of the law enforcement is to protect the public, it follows that they should learn from history and rectify any failings. Neglecting to adjust for racial differences in criminality due to virtue signaling can only result in hurting the law enforcement officers and their efforts at keeping the peace.
1.3.4. Con: It is a fact that black people make in percentage slightly more crime then white people or other races but black people are about 13% of the inhabitants of the USA. It is actually racist if the law enforcement won't arrest black people if they are suspicious because they are black. If the law enforcement want to do everything to keep people save, is racial profiling not a bad idea.
1.3.4.1. Con: Even if this were a fact, racial profiling would not be necessary or helpful. The police can solve crimes more efficiently by following the evidence to the actual offender than by rounding up members of a particular race.
1.3.4.1.1. Pro: It is very doubtful that rounding up ‘the usual suspects’ is effective as a method of solving crimes.
1.3.5. Con: There is no reason that racial profiling based on statistical reasons legitimizes racist behaviour based on prejudices.
1.3.5.1. Con: Racial profiling is likely to create and reinforce negative stereotypes about minorities.
1.3.5.1.1. Pro: If negative stereotypes about minorities are reinforced, then racist behavior is more likely to be viewed as legitimate statistical discrimination.
1.3.5.1.2. Pro: If people see racial minorities being stopped by police disproportionately often, this reinforces the belief that racial minorities are disproportionately likely to be criminals, even if most of those stops are of innocent people.
1.3.6. Pro: Support for the use of racial profiling in specific circumstances is likely to lead to an increased tolerance for racial profiling in general, and hence an increased tolerance for misuse/abuse of racial profiling.
1.3.7. Con: Law enforcers are a tightly knit community operating under high pressure circumstances. The peer approval they get while conducting racial profiling is adequate grounds for it being legitimate to them.
1.3.7.1. Pro: The [way](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2211368115000212) law enforcement makes decisions in the field is usually a very sudden process since at any point their survival may be on the line. For this purpose they either have their accompanying officers or other police experiences to rely upon and thus referring to overall societal attitudes is not something they can afford to do.
1.3.7.1.1. Pro: When the difference between racial profiling and not might cost a police officer their life, it is oft necessary to react to a black individual reaching into their pocket immediately rather than giving margin of appreciation for their action.
1.3.7.1.1.1. Con: There is no reason why we should value the lives of law enforcement officers above the lives of regular citizens.
1.3.7.1.1.1.1. Pro: Law enforcement officers consent to the risks, that their job entails. As such the fact that their job is risky, does not justify the use of unnecessary or disproportionate force.
1.3.7.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Law enforcement officers accept the risks of their job, but this does not mean that they consent to being assaulted.
1.3.7.1.1.2. Con: Racial profiling does not save officers' lives.  People of all races can and do attack police officers, so officers should react to threatening behavior and dangerous actions rather than irrelevant considerations like race.
1.3.7.1.2. Con: The question is would the office react the same way to a white individual reaching into their pocket? Given the exact same circumstances \(-minus race\), the white individual is just as like to pull out a gun and shoot the officer. There have been too many unjustified shootings of black individuals by police officers, and it is time to change the paradigm.
1.3.7.2. Pro: Police often operates on a "Us vs Them" mentality in which law enforcement often believes that they're making the hard choices and putting their lives on the line; something that normal civilians are unable to do.
1.3.7.3. Pro: The law enforcement community is a [tightly knit](http://kdvr.com/2018/01/26/inside-view-of-what-police-officers-are-like-and-how-they-need-communitys-support/) group of individuals since they're often operating in life and death scenarios and often they rely upon each other for their very survival in an extreme situation. When someone develops a bond like that, social influences have a lower impact on the individual than that of their fellow enforcer.
1.3.7.3.1. Con: Law enforcement is still ultimately accountable to and subordinate to the societies they serve. Serve, not rule. If society decides that a certain behavior by law enforcement is unacceptable, they must stop it whether they agree or not.
1.3.7.4. Con: Law enforcement as a whole does not condone racial profiling. Law enforcement officers do not receive approval from their peers for racial profiling.
1.3.7.5. Con: The moral problem of threatening, and potentially killing innocent civilians should outweigh these grounds.
1.4. Con: Banning racial profiling would effectively create "safe havens" for crime among racial minorities, thus indirectly harming their communities and helping racial stereotypes persist.
1.4.1. Pro: It is the job of law enforcement officers to enforce all laws, regardless of the race or ethnicity of the suspect.  To deliberately avoid certain groups out of fear of claims of "profiling" amounts to giving those groups a free pass to violate the law.
1.4.1.1. Con: Banning racial profiling does not mean officers will avoid arresting people of certain races out of fear.
1.4.1.2. Pro: If officers find it difficult to not subconsciously racial profile, they may go to the extreme of not arresting anyone of a particular race to avoid claims of racial profiling.
1.4.1.2.1. Con: Officers who take this approach are incompetent and require additional training.
1.4.2. Con: A ban on racial profiling does not mean that enforcement action can't be taken against a particular race, only that enforcement action must be justified by facts other than the suspect's race.
1.4.2.1. Con: Creating a higher bar for racial minorities of justification other than the suspect's race restricts law enforcement from relying on [intuition or other intangible factors](https://www.apa.org/monitor/sep04/workshop.aspx) that are often effective in fighting crime.
1.4.2.1.1. Con: Intuition is not effective in fighting crime.  Law enforcement should rely on actual information and evidence, not hunches.
1.4.2.1.1.1. Con: Law enforcement data and psychological research shows that intuition, instinct, or "hunches" are based on [complex subconscious evaluation of experience and environmental factors](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/articles/200705/gut-almighty), and [often produce good law enforcement outcomes](https://law.bepress.com/gmulwps/art36/). In short, police discretion to investigate potential crime is a useful tool. It is courts that must weigh the evidence dispassionately before sentencing.
1.4.2.1.1.1.1. Con: Even if hunches sometimes produce good outcomes, there is no way to identify how many hunches have been dead ends or have led to negative outcomes.
1.4.2.1.1.1.2. Con: Police have discretion when investigating crimes and enforcing the law, but they still need to be able to justify their actions with more than just hunches.
1.4.2.1.1.1.3. Con: Even if hunches were a reliable investigative tool, that much latitude would be too easily abused.
1.4.2.1.1.1.4. Con: If I read correctly, these links make no distinction over whether these hunches include racial profiling at all; Without isolating the racial profiling, we can't say whether the hypothetical racial profile-based hunches help or harm the statistics on all hunches, collectively.
1.4.2.1.2. Con: Prohibiting racial profiling creates the same bar of suspicion for everyone, not a higher bar for minorities.  Otherwise it would only be a different flavor of racial profiling.
1.4.2.1.2.1. Con: It is very unlikely that increasing the risk of disciplinary hearings and administrative procedures against law enforcement officers taking actions against minorities or those of a different race from the officer won't create special treatment.
1.4.2.1.2.1.1. Con: Banning racial profiling doesn't have to increase the risk of disciplinary hearings. It is not too much to ask officers to do their jobs fairly.
1.4.2.1.2.1.1.1. Con: Fairness would stop a criminal from hurting others. Restricting proven-effective methods to fight crime either delays or altogether denies justice. The person treated most unfairly is not someone who is stopped by police on a suspicion without being guilty, who is released. It is the victim of the crime.
1.4.2.1.2.1.1.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.2.1.1.1.
1.4.2.1.2.1.1.1.2. Con: It is not necessarily true that a victim of a crime is being treated more unfairly than a person who was stopped by police for a groundless suspicion.
1.4.2.1.2.1.1.1.3. Con: Racial profiling is not a proven-effective method of detecting crime.
1.4.2.1.3. Pro: -> See 1.4.2.1.1.1.
1.4.3. Pro: -> See 1.4.2.1.
1.4.4. Pro: Legitimizing racial profiling will increase false claims and foster victim mentalities in minority communities.[NAACP President Makes False Racial Profiling Claim](http://www.foxnews.com/us/2018/05/20/naacp-leaders-racial-profiling-claim-challenged-after-bodycam-footage-released.html)
1.4.5. Con: Using that reasoning, the entirety of America would be considered a safe haven for white criminals.
1.5. Con: Racial profiling is a legitimate tool for law enforcers to use to prevent crime.
1.5.1. Pro: A person's race is not principally different from any other observable characteristic \(eg their behaviour or location\) that affects whether they are likely to have committed a crime.
1.5.1.1. Pro: Any observable characteristic is likely to be involuntary; it is a fact of humanity that we categorise others. Indeed, race is the first, most primary visual characteristic police identify; in the UK this is through [IC codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IC_codes), and other countries have similar shorthands. This does not negate the need to profile individuals.
1.5.1.2. Con: A person's location being close to a crime scene, or an individual acting suspiciously during questioning, might be indicators of possible criminal behavior; however, presupposing criminal tendencies based solely on race is discriminatory because it associates crime with race.
1.5.1.2.1. Pro: For race to hold true as a criteria for suspicion, it must necessarily be proven without a doubt that some races are far more likely to have committed a crime than others.
1.5.1.2.1.1. Con: Methodological criticisms notwithstanding, [it has](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Criminal_stereotype_of_African_Americans).
1.5.1.2.1.1.1. Con: The over-representation of minorities in crime statistics is a result of, not a justification for, racial profiling.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.1. Pro: Racial profiling should be banned because it creates a feedback loop where people of color are stopped more often and therefore are caught more often which feeds the perception of criminality which causes more profiling.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.2. Con: The over-representation of minorities in crime statistics is at least in part a result of other factors as well \(like the tendency of minority groups to socioeconomically disadvantaged\). So even if racial profiling partly contributes to this disproportionate tendency, it might still be justified.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.2.1. Con: The socioeconomic disadvantages of certain groups is the responsibility of the same body which racially profiles and consequentially over-incarcerates them. Thus in making certain groups more socioeconomically disadvantaged, the state forfeits the right to profile them \(and in many cases, mistreat them\) on that basis.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.3. Con: The vast majority of women who are raped, are raped by men. The argument against profiling should then give equal consideration to women as rape suspects.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.4. Con: Violent crimes are crimes in which a victim filing a report is necessary. Minorities having higher rates of violent crime would, in no way, be related to alleged police racism or profiling.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.4.1. Pro: Black-on-black violent crime being the most prevalent, black people are reporting other black people for violent crime. The police then arresting a person accused of said crime can in no way be the result of a racist officer.

[80% of crimes in which the victim is black, is committed by a black person.](https://www.splcenter.org/fighting-hate/intelligence-report/2000/color-crime-booklet-jared-taylor-popular-radical-right) This is the highest rate.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5. Pro: Racial profiling reduces the amount of faith that racial minorities have in law enforcement, as they see themselves as being unfairly targeted.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.1. Con: Since it is difficult to tell whether a particular arrest is a case of racial profiling, the perception that racial minorities have of the extent to which racial profiling occurs is. to some extent, independent of the extent to which racial profiling actually occurs.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.5.1.1.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.1.2. Con: The lack of racial profiling will be made obvious through other mechanisms. E.g. a reduced law enforcement presence in minority neighborhoods.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.1.2.1. Con: Law enforcement presence in minority neighborhoods is not necessarily caused by racial profiling.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.1.3. Con: Avoiding the perception of racial profiling is, in itself, valuable, as "feeling safe" is a critical item on [Maslow's Heirarchy of Needs](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/hide-and-seek/201205/our-hierarchy-needs)
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.2. Pro: Racial profiling causes alienation and distrust of authority among minorities, and therefore increases racial/ethnic conflicts.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.3. Pro: Racial profiling is giving birth to more violence since people feel categorized as criminals just by their race.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.4. Pro: Additional law enforcement actions taken against an individual imposes an onerous burden upon them that can feel intimidating, such as more traffic stops, more security screenings, more stop and frisk searches.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.4.1. Con: There are [ways to implement racial profiling in non-obvious, less-offensive, and less-impactful ways](https://journalistsresource.org/studies/government/security-military/ethnic-profiling-airport-screening-lessons-israel-1968-2010).
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.5. Pro: Forming part of the public realm, racial profiling creates a vicious cycle in which 1\) the profiled might behave more in the way they feel they observed by the public \(aka society\) since they feel this is their destiny anyway 2\) those that are more tightly controlled are also found guilty more often, not because they commit more crimes, but simply because they are searched more often. This generates a bias within the number of identified criminals relative to the general population.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.6. Con: The focus of racial profiling in policing should lean towards police investigating active criminals or terrorists in only the same ethnic group as the police officer, as not to induce any racial discourse from locating.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.6.1. Con: This would create a bizarre and unnecessary form of racial segregation.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.6.2. Con: Police of every color carry out unfair policies such as racial profiling.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.7. Pro: There is [substantial evidence](https://www.nij.gov/topics/law-enforcement/legitimacy/Pages/welcome.aspx) - statistical and anecdotal - to support this.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.8. Con: -> See 1.1.6.2.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.9. Pro: When these individuals lose faith in law enforcement, they are less likely to co-operate in investigations or provide tips or reports of crimes to police officers.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.9.1. Con: Conversely, the more people fear law enforcement, the more they might be intimidated into providing the police information to save their own skins.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.9.1.1. Con: If innocent people fear law enforcement more, they are less likely to come forward and voluntarily interact with law enforcement in order to provide information.
1.5.1.2.1.1.1.6. Pro: [Historic overpolicing](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2016/05/02/americas-tough-approach-to-policing-black-communities-began-as-a-liberal-idea/?utm_term=.198bfa0187a8) of black communities contributes to current high rates of crime in those communities.
1.5.1.3. Con: A person's race is not an accurate indicator of criminal activity, and is therefore fundamentally different from observable characteristics that do suggest that someone has committed a crime.
1.5.1.4. Con: Race is different from other factors because it is an immutable characteristic.
1.5.1.5. Con: A person's race is completely outside of their voluntary control, unlike other characteristics, so it is wrong to discriminate against them on that basis.
1.5.1.5.1. Con: Other factors that affect the likelihood of committing a crime - like socio-economic status, or residential location - are also largely out of someone's control.
1.5.1.5.2. Con: In some cases, it is clearly moral to discriminate on the basis of factors beyond someone's control. For example, it is legitimate for police to pay disproportionate attention to young men, as opposed to old women.
1.5.1.5.2.1. Pro: [Men are overwhelmingly more likely to commit violent crimes than women.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sex_differences_in_crime#In_the_United_States) If the police know only that a violent criminal is in an area they would be well advised to focus on male suspects and not females. Biological sex is not a voluntary characteristic but using sex to filter your suspects is rational and moral.
1.5.1.5.2.1.1. Con: -> See 1.5.1.2.1.1.1.
1.5.1.5.2.1.2. Con: This rationale does not apply to race.
1.5.1.5.2.1.3. Con: If the only thing that police know is that there is a violent criminal in the area, this information is insufficient to justify taking action against either men or women found in the area.  More evidence is needed.
1.5.1.5.3. Pro: It is more apt to consider people on their connections and associates than it is physical characteristics, despite the fact that this is likely to mean more work.
1.5.1.6. Pro: People's current life circumstances are determined in a way that is almost as out of their control as their race. So insofar as it is legitimate to use facts like a person's way of dressing or location in order to assess the likelihood that they committed a crime, it is legitimate to use their race.
1.5.2. Con: Racial profiling is not a "legitimate tool for law enforcers to use" because white male Americans are more likely to commit many types of crimes. One example of this is[mass shootings.](https://www.statista.com/statistics/476456/mass-shootings-in-the-us-by-shooter-s-race/)
1.5.2.1. Pro: Racial profiling affects racial minorities in the United States much more than it affects the majority race
1.5.2.2. Con: If whites are more likely to commit mass shootings, that implies that racial profiling could be useful to mitigate mass shootings.
1.5.2.2.1. Con: The overwhelmingly vast majority of white males will never commit a mass shooting. The fact that most mass shooters are white males is therefore useless in terms of preventing or mitigating such acts.
1.5.2.3. Con: This is a perfect example of how racial profiling is useful, white males are far more likely to commit these extremely violent crimes than minorities.
1.5.2.3.1. Con: Investigating every white male for a mass shooting would be far less productive and efficient than an investigation based on the unique facts of the specific case.
1.5.2.4. Con: The link provided shows that in total, white people have committed more mass shootings, but analyzing the data using shootings vs. population, a black person is far more likely to be a mass shooter. That is to say, per-capita, blacks commit more mass shootings than whites.
1.5.3. Con: Racial profiling is not a legitimate tool because it does not prevent crime or aid in the detection of crime.
1.5.4. Con: Racial profiling allows people who do not meet the supposedly suspicious profile to more easily escape detection for their crimes.
1.5.4.1. Pro: It feeds into the problematic phenomenon of Christie Nils "[the ideal criminal](http://criticallegalthinking.com/2015/08/05/nils-christies-ideal-victim-applied-from-lions-to-swarms/#_ftnref1)" \(in his article "the ideal victim"\) by which he means that the stereotypical "criminals" and victims portrayed in media aren't helpful, on the contrary it only increases the damage of fear in the public and also leaves a lot of crime marginalised and undetected.
1.5.4.2. Con: This is true of any profiling criteria. Law enforcement seeking to prevent murder will devote most of their attention to men, because men are [about 9x more likely to kill than women](https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/htus8008.pdf); female killers thus avoid suspicion/capture more easily, but the net effect is positive because it leads to correct results more often than wrong ones. The racial numbers are similarly skewed on a per capita basis \(though not in absolute numbers\), so racial profiling is at least as reasonable as gender profiling.
1.5.5. Pro: Israel has [effectively used racial profiling to stop terrorist attacks in airports](https://journalistsresource.org/studies/government/security-military/ethnic-profiling-airport-screening-lessons-israel-1968-2010) for decades.
1.5.6. Pro: Racial profiling doesn't necessarily mean it's racist. It's information.  It's a way humans naturally assess people, situations. Groups of people with similar histories, communities, outlooks would naturally have characteristics we can draw conclusions from. Observing this information doesn't logically automatically equate to being racist.
1.5.6.1. Con: Priests, for years, were able to molest young children of their congregations because of their title and profession. They were profiled by the public to be a safe haven for their children and profiling enabled all pedophile priests to hide in anonymity. Racial profiling, as with any other type of profiling, ignores the individual and instead casts it’s net wide upon all members of that meet listed qualities of the profiled group. Profiling, racial or other, is a dangerous practice.
1.5.7. Con: Racial profiling assumes that all people are not created equal and, thus, is in violation of the founding creed of the United States as expressed in the Declaration of Independence.
1.5.8. Pro: It's not illegal to be racist, hate crimes are really just extensions of general crimes, assault for example, the motive is just as irrelevant as any other that drive such crimes, assault is assault, all motive provides is a potential basis for rehabilitation if your corrections system is so inclined.
1.5.9. Con: This is a tool that ultimately backfires on the law enforcement because it builds barriers between people of law enforcement and the racial community being profiled. If you stop and frisk every black person, you may get the occasional offender, but you're also stopping police from getting tips and assistance, potentially even new recruits from that community making it ultimately harder to close specific cases.
1.5.10. Pro: Sweden [removed](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/swedish-police-are-not-allowed-to-give-descriptions-of-alleged-criminals-so-as-not-to-sound-racist-a6810311.html) this practice a few years ago and now they are struggling hard to track criminal activity since the public is not allowed to know any details about the criminals, only the crimes. This has allowed foreign criminal networks to grow at a rapid rate while the government and the police is not allowed to report the real picture of the situation.
1.5.11. Con: Racial profiling ends up becoming a self fulfilling prophecy. Since African Americans are seen as more prone to commit crime in the US, for instance, first offenders are [judged a lot more harshly](http://www.naacp.org/criminal-justice-fact-sheet/) than their white counterparts. Being incarcerated [turns](https://www.nij.gov/topics/corrections/recidivism/pages/welcome.aspx) many people into career criminals.
1.5.11.1. Con: All racial groups should be sentenced by the same standards- but this could equally imply sentences should be increased rather than decreased.
1.5.11.2. Con: The cited source only quotes rates of prisoners returning to crime post release. It does not imply that incarceration caused that trend.
1.6. Con: Racial minorities are often over-represented in crime statistics, and therefore it is effective for law enforcers to use their limited resources to target these groups.
1.6.1. Con: -> See 1.5.1.2.1.1.1.
1.6.2. Con: Racial profiling is sensitive to race and place of enforcement. Elaboration: African American motorists are disproportionately racially profiled in predominantly white suburbs. This cannot be explained by African American's over-representation in crime statistics, because the so-called "hit-rates" for African Americans overall are lower in predominantly white suburbs. [tandfonline.com](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/07418820200095291)
1.6.3. Pro: Black political leaders themselves have acknowledged that race plays a role in the likelihood of crime. [Jesse Jackson said](https://www.nytimes.com/1993/12/12/opinion/in-america-a-sea-change-on-crime.html), "There is nothing more painful to me at this stage in my life than to walk down the street and hear footsteps... then turn around and see somebody white and feel relieved."
1.6.4. Pro: -> See 1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.4.1.
1.6.5. Pro: [Black people are more criminal on average](https://therationalists.org/2016/07/13/why-do-black-people-commit-more-crime/), because of poverty. Thus, racial profiling is necessary, even though it is racist. Our whole society is racist as long as more white people are rich than black people on average. Until more opportunities are created for black people, racial profiling is needed.
1.6.5.1. Con: Whether or not any given race is statistically more likely to commit crimes in general has no bearing on who actually committed a specific crime. Criminal investigation should rely on specific facts and evidence rather than statistical guesswork.
1.6.5.1.1. Con: Statistical guesswork is completely legitimate to use. It works, because it is the pure power of mathematics and it helps a lot to solve crimes. If there are no specific claims or hints in an investigation, statistics help to make the circle of possible criminals smaller and investigate more effectively.
1.6.5.1.1.1. Con: Statistical guesswork is approximation using bidders that can be spun to mean almost anything. This is hardly "the pure power of mathematics."
1.6.5.1.1.2. Con: If there is a statistical reason to believe that a particular crime was committed by a suspect of a certain race, this still does not justify using such an approach as a default method of investigation for all crimes.
1.6.5.1.1.3. Con: Using statistics to investigate crimes in this way would aid suspects who are statistical outliers in avoiding detection.
1.6.5.1.2. Con: Statistics work. Because black people are more criminal on general, you may say: Whether or not any given race is statistically more likely to commit crimes in general, or so to say statistical guesswork with probabilities and assumptions, has an effect on who actually committed a specific crime. Criminal investigation should rely on statistical guesswork that works on average, not in every single case obviously. But it provides more certainty for sure.
1.6.5.1.3. Con: Statistics helps allocation of law enforcement resources. No one arrests people based on profiling, it is a tool to optimize resources.
1.6.5.2. Pro: Blacks are 12% of the U.S population yet account for around [40% of violent crime](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_and_crime_in_the_United_States). If black people don't want to be targeted by the cops they can simply stop being exactly what the cops expect them to be. Short of that it's not the cops being disproportionate, it's blacks, cops are meeting the statistics blacks create.
1.6.5.3. Pro: If this argument followed as such then we should also allow the police to racially profile white business executives for suspicion of embezzlement and insider trading and racially profile unemployed young white men for suspicion of mass shootings. Both groups are much more likely to engage in these criminal behaviors.
1.6.5.3.1. Con: Of course you should! And of course you also should use racial profiling, then when following your line of argumentation.
1.6.6. Pro: Race relation to law enforcement actions are [sometimes correlated without being the cause](https://www.nij.gov/topics/law-enforcement/legitimacy/Pages/traffic-stops.aspx). Laws to stop racial profiling may block effective law enforcement in circumstances like these.
1.6.7. Pro: -> See 1.5.5.
1.6.8. Con: Crimes statistics are difficult to interpret as the increased presence of police in those areas itself results in higher rates of arrest and therefore high rates of crime. The perception that a group engages in more crime is a self fulfilling prophesy if using crime statistics, as it means more police will be dedicated to that area and crime will appear to increase as arrests increase.
1.6.9. Pro: Racial profiling is an efficient and effective way of sorting large amounts of individuals for further inspection.
1.6.9.1. Con: Given the individual variation between members of the same race, racial profiling is too error prone to be either effective or efficient in reaching law enforcement goals.
1.6.10. Pro: It would be considered racist to not provide adequate policing to neighbourhoods that have higher criminality. Since neighbourhoods self organize on a racial basis, and certain ethnic groups have a higher per-capita criminality, it follows that some racial profiling is essentially part of any fair law enforcement program.
1.6.10.1. Con: If an officer responds to more crimes in a minority community because there are more reported crimes there, this is not racial profiling because the officer's actions are based on factors other than race. Correlation is not causation.
1.6.11. Con: Police must determine reasonable suspicion of a crime being committed, which means a reasonable person would think that a crime has likely been committed at that moment. Racial minorities are statistically more likely to commit crimes, but not statistically likely enough to think any given one of them is committing a crime at any given moment.
1.6.12. Pro: Purposely ignoring racial groups that are over represented in recorded offences would grant them impunity and legitimise criminal activity.
1.6.12.1. Con: This is going from one extreme to the other but it is not all or nothing. Abolishing racial profiling means being neither more or less suspicious of someone due to their race.
1.6.13. Pro: All profiling should be allowed.  If 90% of crimes are committed by "fat people", then of course fat people should be profiled.  "Racial profiling" fails to even acknowledge that it is men who are being profiled, of a certain age, in certain geographic locations, at certain times.  All aspects of profiling.  Of course race should be included, if it is statistically significant.
1.6.14. Pro: Different races do have different attitudes, come from different cultures and often have different values, so it makes sense to treat them with different precautions when a snap decision has to be made. It is wrong to arrest or injure someone based on their race alone when time is available to consider options, but races which have been statistically proven to be more violent must be treated with more caution in split-second decisions.
1.6.15. Con: A person's race makes at best a marginal difference in the probability that they are engaged in criminal behaviour. Other characteristics are far more important to pay attention to.
1.6.15.1. Con: -> See 1.1.5.1.1.1.
1.6.15.2. Con: The 'characteristics of a criminal' can only ever be reductive and stereotypical; profiling on other characteristics would be just as problematic as on race.
1.6.15.2.1. Con: The "characteristics" of a criminal include highly individualised information, like how they are behaving or where they are going.
1.6.15.3. Pro: Poverty is one of the [best](https://www.economist.com/news/science-and-technology/21613303-disturbing-study-link-between-incomes-and-criminal-behaviour-have-and) predictors of criminality.
1.6.15.4. Pro: Age is a [very strong](https://www.sagepub.com/sites/default/files/upm-binaries/60294_Chapter_23.pdf) predictor of criminality.
1.6.16. Pro: Because of this statistical overrepresentation, a person's race is a quick and useful way to adjust the probability that they have committed a crime.
1.6.16.1. Con: Officers need individualized reasonable suspicion to legally detain someone. Sweeping generalizations and stereotypes do not meet this standard.
1.6.16.1.1. Con: An officer should not be able to detain someone just due to the generalisation and assumptions due to skin color, but because of a combination of statistical guesswork and specific hints.
1.7. Pro: Racial profiling is [ineffective](https://www.aclu.org/blog/mass-incarceration/racial-profiling-ineffective-distracting-and-detrimental-public-safety), as it focuses attention on how individuals look, rather than actual suspicious or criminal behavior.
1.7.1. Pro: An overreliance by police on easy heuristics - like a person's skin color - makes them less likely to pay more detailed attention in order to detect more accurate signs of someone being a criminal.
1.7.1.1. Pro: Police officers have limited attention and perception, so focusing on one set of characteristics makes them less able to also focus on others.
1.7.1.1.1. Con: Skin color is recognized in fractions of a second. That's why there is no trade-off between giving attention to skin color or other characteristics.
1.7.1.2. Con: This depends on what one may construe as 'accurate signs'; such signs are likely to be based on statistical data, much like racial profiling.
1.7.2. Con: If racial profiling were ineffective, then since police are interested in detecting criminals as accurately as possible, police would naturally stop profiling with no need for ban on the practice.
1.7.2.1. Con: Police officers are subject to the same types of biases and faulty perceptions as everyone else. It is fully possible for a police officer to incorrectly believe a practice to be effective.
1.7.2.2. Con: This ignores inertia and bureaucratic forces. It takes for granted every police officer questions his practices regularly and his every judgment call. It does not take into consideration pressure to conform or authority chains nor politics.
1.7.3. Pro: Racial profiling takes away the critical thinking aspect of policing. Handling crime is a multifaceted task, and it means piecing series of events together for a just resolution. Racial profiling proves to be ineffective as it demonizes a group and erodes the intentions of the justice system, of fairness and equality.
1.7.4. Pro: The problem with racial profiling is that it relies on narrow stereotypes that couldn't possibly apply to all of the people of a particular race. By definition, that's a generalization, and generalizations are prone to fallacy.
1.7.4.1. Pro: Differentiating between suspects by race is likely based on anecdotal prejudices, rather than real statistical justifications.
1.7.4.1.1. Con: The FBI UCR data says the difference is real and significant for homicide \(where the race of the offender is usually known\).  This alone does not justify profiling.  But it does make the case the difference is real.  Note that this is the raw homicide count and must be divided by population size to get the rate for a given race.

[ucr.fbi.gov](https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2013/crime-in-the-u.s.-2013/offenses-known-to-law-enforcement/expanded-homicide/expanded_homicide_data_table_6_murder_race_and_sex_of_vicitm_by_race_and_sex_of_offender_2013.xls)
1.7.4.2. Con: If by "narrow stereotype"  you mean demographic reality, it is true it does not apply to all, nor even a majority of a race.  But, that is not a sufficient argument to say it is irrelevant because it still increases the chance of finding a criminal.
1.7.4.2.1. Con: "Narrow stereotype" is not the same thing as "demographic reality."
1.7.5. Pro: There is not enough genetic difference for defining different subspecies in "homo sapiens", i.e., there is only one "race": the "homo sapiens sapiens", and that's why it is redundant to profile, criminally or otherwise, on that basis.
1.7.5.1. Con: Effective crime prevention looks at all quantifiable data related to criminal activity, not a politically-correct subset of data.
1.7.5.1.1. Con: Effective crime prevention and law enforcement looks at the most relevant and reliable data, not all possible data.
1.7.5.2. Con: Different ethnicity groups can be affected by things other than genetics, such as location, religion and social class.
1.7.6. Con: Racial profiling can be [very effective](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Y1kJpHBn50), as Israeli airlines have proven.
1.7.6.1. Con: Using racial profiling as part of a comprehensive security strategy does not necessarily demonstrate the effectiveness of racial profiling \(or any other single component of the overall strategy\).
1.7.6.1.1. Con: Statistics and comparisons to similar systems can be used to corroborate the effectiveness of a component.
1.7.7. Pro: It's a police officer's job to determine if there's reasonable suspicion of a crime being committed. Someone's race alone isn't statistically significant enough to infer likelihood of illegal activity, and therefore a reasonable person wouldn't consider it grounds for reasonable suspicion. \(i.e. you don't see a random person on the street and think "they're committing a crime" simply because of their skin/eyes/etc., there has to be other factors\)
1.7.8. Con: In certain places, for example Israeli airports, racial profiling is a necessary tool in preventing terrorist attacks as the majority of terrorists in said airports are of Arab/Muslim ethnicity.
1.7.9. Pro: Racial profiling is based on the categorisation of humans by race, but “race” is an ambigious term with little or no scientific value or meaning. In practice, racial profiling seems to hinge on an arbitrary factor, i.e. skin colour, which has nothing to do with propensity for crime.
1.7.10. Con: -> See 1.6.
1.7.11. Pro: [Racial profiling](http://genprogress.org/voices/2010/10/07/15828/racial-profiling-is-ineffective-and-wrong-so-why-does-it-keep-happenin/) has become more of a problem in recent years, with innocent African Americans being killed at the hands of a white police officer. Racial profiling should be brought to an end, for it makes people of color feel uncomfortable and out of place, and most of them are American citizens!
1.8. Pro: -> See 1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.
1.9. Pro: Racial profiling is morally wrong.
1.9.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.1.2.1.1.1.5.4.
1.9.2. Con: -> See 1.4.2.1.2.1.1.1.
1.9.3. Pro: The problem with racial profiling is that it focuses on group identity and thus perpetrates racial stereotypes. As seen in the US, this resulted in the many deaths of innocent people. Our judicial system is predicated upon the idea that the individual has civil rights, responsibilities and can thus be considered guilty for failing to respect those as an INDIVIDUAL. Racial profiling assumes that individuals of a group are generally guilty which goes against the axiom of our judicial system.
1.9.4. Pro: When it comes to criminal accusation by government agencies, the benefit of a doubt must be uniform until proven otherwise. The presumption of innocence should not be determined by the color of one's skin or the accent of one's voice.
1.9.5. Pro: All the humans have the same rights.
1.9.6. Pro: Everyone should be treated innocent until proving guilty. People should not be arrested or held for questioning unless there is just cause to do so.
1.9.7. Pro: Racial profiling assigns guilt of a class of crimes to a specific ethnic group. It is poor, lazy and hate-driven law enforcement.
1.9.8. Pro: The use of racial profiling means innocent citizens are unfairly targeted.
1.9.8.1. Con: [Not exactly:](https://www.channel4.com/news/factcheck/factcheck-black-americans-commit-crime) Around 13% of the inhabitants of the USA are black, and black people comprise 55% of all crime. It is a fact that black people commit more crimes than white people, but that is mostly because they had bad schooling because when they came here, they had nothing. They ware slaves. Without money you can't afford school, and cannot work, so can't pay your kids school. And so it goes on for generations. The only way to get money is to steal or deal drugs etc. [Source](https://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/data-mine/2015/01/28/us-education-still-separate-and-unequal).
1.9.8.2. Pro: Racially profiling can cause higher false positive rates. Looking like a criminal should not be a crime. \(Here is an article with more info about the problem of wrongful sentencing: [www.washingtonpost.com](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-cost-of-convicting-the-innocent/2015/07/24/260fc3a2-1aae-11e5-93b7-5eddc056ad8a_story.html?noredirect=on&utm_term=.e59164c133af)\)
1.9.9. Pro: Discrimination on the basis of someone's race involves inflicting an injustice on them, since their race is beyond their voluntary control.
1.9.9.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.1.
1.9.9.2. Con: Racial profiling to identify or prevent crime is no more morally wrong than requiring racial quotas in employment, education, and other societal roles.
1.9.9.3. Con: Inflicting injustice on some people may be warranted if it prevents enough harm.
1.9.9.3.1. Con: It is immoral to treat individuals as a means to an end.
1.9.9.3.2. Con: Violating the right's of individuals in the pursuit of utilitarian good is likely to backfire.
1.9.9.3.3. Con: Unjust treatment of an entire race causes more harm than it could ever prevent.
1.9.9.4. Con: -> See 1.5.1.5.2.
1.9.10. Con: Police officers have a moral duty to protect society. Whatever they do in serving that goal \(as long as it is not a serious violation of someone's rights\) is morally acceptable.
1.9.10.1. Con: Directly harming minorities by disproportionately stopping them is in direct violation to a goal of protecting society.
1.9.10.2. Pro: A trade-off between safety and freedom must be made.
1.9.10.3. Con: What constitutes a 'serious violation of someone's rights' is debatable; there is no absolute standard. This leaves the entire concept vulnerable to abuse.
1.9.10.3.1. Pro: A "serious violation of someone's rights" could easily include racially profiling them.