Discussion Title: Should the West give development aid?

1. Should the West give development aid?
1.1. Con: Western citizens have no inherent obligation to provide for other regions of the world. Aid, which uses tax payers' money, is illegitimate as it does not return benefits to the people that pay for it.
1.1.1. Con: By providing aid it also secures the well-being of its own people.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Development aid contributes into the overall stability of the recipient region and peaceful interaction between groups in the Global South.
1.1.1.1.1. Con: Political and social conflicts often occur due to large societal inequalities. Aid, which primarily benefits a small part of the population, can contribute to deepen these inequalities.
1.1.1.1.1.1. Pro: Most development projects are located close to or in urban areas to make them easily accessible to visiting foreign donors or staff. This means that the very remote and rural populations often do not have access to aid inflows.
1.1.1.1.2. Pro: Aid reduces the risk of violent conflicts over resources as capital is available from aid instead.
1.1.1.1.2.1. Pro: Reduced violent conflicts reduces the risk of creating human displacement.
1.1.1.1.2.2. Pro: Reduced violent conflicts lead to a more stable environment for growth due to higher safety of investments and long term planning.
1.1.2. Pro: The West still has issues within its own borders in terms of homelessness,  inequalities and unemployment which should be its priority to fix as it is of interest to the tax-paying population.
1.1.2.1. Con: The amount of aid a country is required to give [\(0.7% of its GNI\)](http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/the07odagnitarget-ahistory.htm) is almost insignificant in a Western country's total GNI.
1.1.2.1.1. Pro: Note that only a minority of Western countries actually fulfill the 0.7% - target.
1.1.3. Con: Friendship, appreciation of generosity, reduction of isolation are potential benefits. It may also buy influence.
1.2. Con: Development aid reduces the developing nation's government's accountability to its own citizens in exchange for accountability to donor nations.
1.2.1. Con: Democracy can sometimes be undermined if it means saving lives within the country.
1.2.2. Pro: Since the source of income is aid provided by foreign nations instead of domestically collected taxes, it is more important to follow the directive of the donor country instead of the local population.
1.3. Con: Aid causes dependency upon the West and removes the incentive to create a self-sufficient economy in recipient countries.
1.3.1. Con: The global economy is a large network of interdependent countries. The reliance works both ways when these countries start supplying necessary services or goods back to Western nations.
1.3.2. Pro: Often aid is dependent on supporting the political ideology or policy objective of the donor nation which do not always equal the needs of the developing nations.
1.3.2.1. Pro: Developing nations government have a split responsibility to serve the objectives of their population and the donor countries, often at the expense of the other.
1.3.2.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.
1.3.2.2. Con: While maybe meeting immediate needs of the Global South, the values and ideologies promoted are often inherently good, e.g. human rights.
1.3.2.2.1. Pro: Aid ensures that liberal ideas are implemented into policies as they are often a conditions for aid to be given, e.g. property rights, respect for human rights, etc.
1.3.2.2.1.1. Pro: The guarantee of property rights generally increase people's willingness to purchase goods and make investments, which in turn creates a good basis for a sustainable economy.
1.3.2.2.1.2. Pro: Even if there are no guaranteed economic benefits, the possibility to enforce human rights is rare and should be sustained.
1.3.2.2.1.3. Con: These ideas are not guaranteed to be beneficial for the economic development of the recipient country.
1.3.2.2.1.3.1. Pro: Often large scale land reforms are necessary to provide the basis for development, which is significantly harder when the government can't distribute land in the most proficient manner.
1.3.2.2.1.4. Con: The ideas which are implemented aren't necessarily liberal, they mirror foreign policy objectives of the donor nation and therefore may undermine the democratic will of the recipient country.
1.3.2.2.1.4.1. Pro: Examples can be found in the United States aid program, which has often been provided to undemocratic regimes, without conditions to change, to serve U.S interests.
1.3.2.2.1.5. Pro: The enforcement of rights ensure that there is less social conflict for said rights in the future, this is beneficial for the overall economic stability of the countries at hand.
1.3.2.3. Pro: One of the most recent and prominent examples is the recurrent re-establishment of the so-called "Gag rule" by POTUS earlier this year. \(The Gag rule cuts any funding to organization or projects which involve the promotion or talking about abortion as part of family planning\). This harms the consistency of aid flows to specific projects leading to unsustainable development.
1.3.2.3.1. Pro: This means that aid is exposed to political changes in the donor country, i.e. election that lead to a change in government with different views and values.
1.3.3. Con: Aid is often the only option available to many countries to supply their population with vital goods and services.
1.3.3.1. Pro: debunk food aid: often only given in disaster situations or famines when there is no other option available. the choice then is food aid and live or no food aid and die
1.3.4. Pro: Aid dependency is not solely linked to money.
1.3.4.1. Pro: Development projects or tools are dependent on a certain type of knowledge or technology often only possessed by the donor country. Once the project ends, the knowledge and technology leaves and the progress achieved cannot be sustained by the recipient country alone, e.g. it is dependent on the West’s knowledge and technology which creates an power imbalance.
1.3.4.1.1. Con: This power imbalance can be easily offset by properly designing the development project including a necessary education component to make the knowledge transfer to local staff efficient and successful.
1.3.4.2. Pro: Countries in the Global South require the knowledge and technical expertise in order to maintain the quality of projects, especially concerning infrastructure projects.
1.3.4.2.1. Pro: Development projects are designed to score short-term results and do not include long-term maintenance of the infrastructure.
1.3.4.2.1.1. Pro: If not maintained the resulting poor roads, low quality electricity provision or deterioting buildings can be dangerous and harmful to human health through facilitating accidents and electrocution.
1.3.5. Pro: The provision of developent aid reduces the need and desire for countries to develop their own fiscal strengths as capital flows are secured.
1.3.5.1. Pro: Once a country stops receiving aid, it does not automatically solve aid dependency. Most likely the market, such as the agricultural sector, has been demobilized and the stagnated market is unable to compete with cheap commercial imports. This leads to import dependency of essential goods such as foods in the recipient country.
1.3.5.1.1. Con: debunk food aid: often only given in disaster situations or famines when
there is no other option available. the choice then is food aid and
live or no food aid and die
1.4. Pro: -> See 1.3.2.2.1.
1.5. Con: Development aid is very intransparent. You can't see where the money really goes and what it does.
1.6. Pro: The West is greatly responsible for generating the conditions that lead to the underdevelopment of some countries and that still preserves it. As a consequence, the West must provide development aid, but focused on removing such conditions.
1.7. Pro: Aid is the easiest and best way to allow countries in the Global South to get access to the capital flows needed in order to develop.
1.7.1. Con: Upfront capital is not needed in order to develop, large scale agricultural reforms and the development on a fluid business sector can be created by policy reforms. This allows the country to domestically create the capital to further on reinvest in order to get long term growth.
1.7.2. Pro: Due to lack of capital, developing nations often have a hard time accessing beneficial goods produced in other nations which they require in order to improve, e.g. natural resources, technology or knowledge based services. Aid fixes this by providing the necessary capital.
1.7.2.1. Con: This can also be fixed by providing more beneficial trade agreements for countries in the Global South.
1.7.3. Pro: Infrastructure, such as roads, hospital, electricity access and schools, are necessary tools to create a functioning economy which developing countries are unable to afford by themselves, hence development aid is needed.
1.7.3.1. Con: -> See 1.3.4.2.1.
1.7.3.2. Pro: Poor infrastructure fosters social inequality, e.g. inbetween rural and urban population, which hinders development and growth.
1.7.3.2.1. Pro: Poor or non-existent roads can lead to large post harvest losses, the inability of the rural population to participate in market activities, limited irrigation of arable land, and uneducated population.
1.7.3.3. Pro: A significant amount of essential knowledge regarding development processes, such as technical expertise , are hard to access locally and need to be imported from abroad initially.
1.7.3.3.1. Pro: By receiving aid, developing countries are able to afford foreign expertise and draw use of their knowledge, by e.g. building of knowledge and capacity of local staff. As such development aid assist the transfer of knowledge into countries where it is needed.
1.7.3.3.2. Pro: Increasing amount of aid are no longer monetary based but shaped as technical assistance, e.g. sharing expertise and supporting local capacity building.
1.7.3.4. Pro: Without accessible, available, affordable and quality health facilities, [as recommended by the WHO](http://www.who.int/gender-equity-rights/knowledge/aaaq-infographic/en/), the health of the population cannot be secured.
1.7.3.4.1. Pro: A healthy labor force is crucial for productivity and economic growth.
1.7.3.4.2. Pro: Vaccines are thermo-sensitive and require [cold-chain delivery](http://www.euro.who.int/en/health-topics/disease-prevention/vaccines-and-immunization/vaccines-and-immunization/vaccine-quality,-efficacy-and-safety/vaccine-cold-chain-management) to secure their efficacy upon arrival. Such delivery requires quality roads, access to electricity and human resources. The delivery of vaccines preventing fatal diseases such as cervical cancers is extremely costly and requires the financial support of intiatives such as GAVI.
1.7.3.4.3. Pro: The majority of health facilities in the Global South rely on foreign funding to pay staff, stock medicines, and be build in the first place.
1.8. Pro: The West has a moral and historical responsibility to support development in the [Global South](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_South) due to its colonial past, unfair trade policies and financial capacity.
1.8.1. Con: -> See 1.1.
1.8.2. Pro: Colonial exploitation experienced by many countries in the Global South contributed/s to their current disadvantaged situation and the lower capacity for development.
1.8.2.1. Pro: During the colonial time, countries in the Global South have been deprived of natural resources, land and human capital.
1.8.2.1.1. Pro: The cultivation method for cash crops promoted by the Europeans, monoculture, resulted in the long term depletion of soil inhibiting current agricultural development in the former colonies.
1.8.3. Pro: Global trade rules put in place by Western nations over the past decades have disproportionately disadvantaged the Global South.
1.8.3.1. Pro: The Global South is restricted in its ability to raise barriers against cheap food imports from rich countries, which subsidize their exports. The resulting flooding of local markets with cheap food imports has threatened the livelihood of the local population.
1.8.3.2. Con: Providing development aid reduces the incentive to make structural changes to these trade rules as they can instead be fix by financial compensation in the future. Instead, the pressure should be on the West to fundamentally change their approach to trade rules and regulations in order to benefit the world's poorer countries.
1.8.3.3. Pro: Countries in the Global South are restricted from providing short-term subsidies to their agricultural and industrial sector to increase the sectors' global competitiveness. In comparison, the EU and US are allowed to heavily subsidize their agriculture.
1.8.3.4. Pro: Mandatory opening up of the service sector to foreign suppliers has resulted in health, education and water services being run and controlled by profit-driven foreign corportations making them financially inaccessible to the local population.
1.8.3.5. Pro: Rigid protection of patents has made the costs of technology transfer unbearable for countries in the Global South depriving them from affordable medicines.
1.8.4. Con: The West's moral obligation is to stay out of the affairs of the Global South. The idea that these countries are unable to develop on their own is deeply patronizing and contributes into a narrative of Western superiority.
1.8.5. Pro: The West has the financial capacity to provide development aid to the Global South without risking its own people's lives.
1.8.5.1. Con: -> See 1.1.2.
1.8.5.2. Pro: -> See 1.1.1.
1.8.6. Con: It is equally morally injust to further cooperate and finance elites and ruling groups which were not elected in open and fair election but instead still benefit from power gained during colonial times.
1.8.7. Pro: The West owes something to it's former colonies and other states that were exploited and destabilized with violence in the past.
1.8.8. Pro: Using the input of cheap labour and resources from the Global South, the West managed to highten their own capacity for development. As a result, the West’s wealth is partially based on the historical injustice done to the Global South, which as never been repayed.
1.8.8.1. Con: The West has spent tens of billions of USD on development aid in the last few decades and has more than payed back the direct material losses suffered in the Global South.
1.8.8.1.1. Con: While this might be true, the structural long-term damage done to the local economies and livelihoods requires more than simply the compensation of material losses.
1.8.8.2. Pro: Colonies provided raw materials needed it for manufacturing by European Imperial powers at a under-value price. Simultanelously the colonies presented a market for imported industrialized goods resulting in high trade profits for the Western powers allowing for improvement of living standards of the West's population
1.8.8.3. Pro: Due to the exploitation of colonial population and slavery, the West could free up its own labour and use it on sectors with higher contribution to economic growth, e.g. manufacturing and service, and development, e.g. medicine, transportation and technological innovation.
1.9. Con: Development aid has had little to no effect in many of countries which have been allocated a significant amount of it.
1.9.1. Con: There are no better alternatives for the majority of these countries, due to lacking meaningful capital which is required for development.
1.9.2. Con: The traditional forms of development based on exports and manufacturing are no longer an option due to rapid automation replacing the need for cheap labor. As such, developing countries have fewer avenues available and need to be supplied with enough capital to retain or create basic services.
1.9.3. Pro: Development aid is very ineffective. Millons of dollars have not changed a lot in the past. [Economists support this statement.](https://www.cgdev.org/article/economists-see-aid-poor-nations-ineffective)
1.9.4. Pro: Development is a complex process, not a linear one \(e.g. just because you build a school does not mean you will have students attending\).
1.9.4.1. Pro: Development aid is often based on the naive assumption that money solves poverty, whereas often a lack of capital is merely a symptom of a country's poverty not the cause.
1.9.4.1.1. Pro: Poverty is often a result of lacking institutional capacity and good governance. Until these issues are resolved, spending money on aid is a wasteful endeavor.
1.9.4.2. Pro: The call for context and contextualizing the approach is nothing new, local context have been taken into consideration for the majority of aid projects in the last decades. Yet, it has not resulted in the development asked for.
1.9.4.3. Con: Large institutions such as the World Bank, UN or Oxfam have already started to adopt approach embracing the complexity of development, hence aid is promising to become \(even more\) effective in the near future.
1.9.5. Con: Effectiveness of aid should not solely be measured in monetary or economic terms. Instead, improvements in other sectors, such as education and health, should also be used as metrics.
1.9.5.1. Pro: Health improvements include the cutting in half of[maternal](http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/maternal.shtml)and [under five mortality](http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/childhealth.shtml)since 1990 and saving 37 million lives through [tuberculosis](http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/aids.shtml) prevention, diagnosis and treatment between 2000 and 2013.
1.9.5.2. Pro: Improvements in social sectors do not immediately result in economic growth but has a positive economic impact in the longterm \(e.g. skilled and healthy labor\)
1.9.5.3. Pro: [Gender disparity](http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/gender.shtml)in primary, secondary and tertiary education has been eliminated in developing countries.
1.9.5.4. Pro: Primary education enrollment in the Global South and youth literacy is now both [over 90](http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/education.shtml).
1.9.5.4.1. Con: That is Global statistic, in the Global South, the figure is much lower, parts of Western and Central Africa have less than [50% literacy](https://data.unicef.org/topic/education/literacy/). Even countries like Zambia and Malawi, who have achieved Universal Primary Education struggle to reach these numbers. There is a distinct lack of focus on the quality for the sake of the quantity.
1.9.6. Pro: Development aid fosters corruption within the recipient country and strengthens local elites.
1.9.6.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.
1.9.6.2. Pro: -> See 1.1.1.1.1.
1.9.6.3. Con: Giving conditional aid, i.e. ear-marked aid for a specific sector or activities, bypasses corrupt governments.
1.9.6.3.1. Con: Conditional aid requires a higher burden of administrative work \(as it has to be specifically tracked and monitored\) and hence a larger sum of aid has to be allocated towards administrative staff instead of the actual project
1.9.6.3.2. Pro: Conditional aid can provide guidance on development projects and secure that life-saving goals are reached as fast as possible.
1.9.6.3.3. Con: Conditional aid can increase the advantage of foreign investors in the Global South.
1.9.6.3.3.1. Pro: With a higher financial capacity, foreign investors are more lucrative buyers of e.g. remaining natural resources and hence push up the price. This means that the local population is unable to invest and gain less access and decision-making power over the remainder of land and natural resources.
1.9.6.3.4. Pro: Aid conditional on opening the market to foreign goods, foreign investments and reducing state intervention in the economy fosters global trade.
1.9.6.3.4.1. Con: -> See 1.9.6.3.3.
1.9.6.3.5. Con: Providing conditional aid means that the donor country gets increasingly intertwined in the local political processes. Together with the fear of aid being easily withdrawn if conditions are not met, this results in increased aid dependency of the recipient country, which inhibits political and economic development.
1.9.6.3.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.
1.9.6.3.6. Con: Ear-marked, or conditional, aid to a specific sector can create market imbalance through that sector outperforming other sectors. This leads to fragmented and unsustainable development.
1.9.6.4. Pro: Aid enables corruption due to the lack of control over where the money ends up, e.g Zambia.
1.9.6.5. Con: Sometimes it is needed to provide aid to despotic regimes in order to save lives of the population suffering from that regime even if not the complete amount of aid will reach its destination.
1.9.7. Pro: A quarter of sub-Saharan countries are [poorer now than in the 1960s](https://www.spectator.co.uk/2014/01/why-aid-fails/#), despite large amounts of aid being provided to the region.
1.9.8. Pro: The best examples of rapid development during the 20th century, e.g. Korea and China, did not base their growth on development aid.
1.10. Con: -> See 1.9.6.
1.11. Pro: -> See 1.1.1.1.