Discussion Title: Should More Women Work In Construction In The United States?

1. More women should work in construction in the United States
1.1. Pro: There aren't enough women in construction in the USA.
1.1.1. Pro: Currently, women only make up [9.1%](https://www.nawic.org/nawic/statistics.asp) of construction workers in the United States.
1.2. Pro: Women have been proven to be capable at construction work.
1.3. Con: Construction worker jobs are less likely to appeal to a woman.
1.3.1. Con: That should not be an issue, because then there are no worries about the construction industry changing drastically, even when women get more choices.
1.3.2. Con: That may change when women get more opportunity, training, and encouragement.
1.4. Pro: If a woman is qualified and wants to work in the field and there is work available, they should be able to work.
1.4.1. Pro: People should have freedom to do what they would like to do with their lives through pursuit of life, liberty, and happiness.
1.5. Pro: The presence of women on construction sites mitigates the stereotypes of construction workers.
1.6. Pro: The US has economic issues right now and hiring women could resolve them.
1.6.1. Pro: Hiring women should lower the gender wage gap and it can be addressed with greater opportunities to as more women get hired.
1.6.2. Pro: Women are more likely to go to college, so they should have more student debt to work off. Construction would give them an opportunity to pay it off.
1.6.3. Pro: STEM jobs are low, but can be increased by providing women with construction work.
1.6.4. Pro: Essential work is being performed by undocumented immigrants with no training while qualified women are not hired.
1.6.4.1. Pro: There is a lack of ability in companies being able to find workers due to a low unemployment rate. Women can fill in the gap.
1.6.4.2. Pro: Having a legitimate workplace of qualified workers \(those that are not illegal\) will lower the risk of legal issues
1.6.4.3. Pro: Hiring women lowers the risk for discrimination lawsuits.
1.7. Pro: Construction trade unions do nothing to encourage or recruit female workers despite federal guidelines.
1.8. Con: More women should work in construction if they want to, and they shouldn't if they don't want to. Freedom of choice doesn't support this affirmative claim.
1.9. Con: Construction is man's work.
1.9.1. Con: Being male is not a requirement for working or being successful in construction.
1.9.2. Con: Getting a position or a job should be merit based and not sex based, if the individual can handle the job then by all means.
1.10. Con: Women do not have the physical strength to do this work.
1.10.1. Con: There are many position within the field of construction that do not require a certain amount of physical strength.
1.10.2. Con: [Training](http://psycnet.apa.org/record/2013-19336-001) can greatly increase muscular strength capabilities for women in this field.
1.11. Con: The presence of women on construction sites makes it dangerous for male workers.
1.11.1. Con: Then the companies employing women for this work should train men and women more in teamwork dynamics and inclusion \(as the field is going from 1 group \(men\) to 2 groups \(men and women\)\) to make sure everyone is productive.
1.12. Con: There is already too much sexual harassment on construction sites without adding women workers to the mix.
1.12.1. Pro: Over [50%](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2018/01/12/half-women-construction-have-harassed-study-reveals/) of women in construction have been harassed their male counterparts.
1.12.1.1. Pro: A [US Department of Labor study](https://jobsite.procore.com/from-the-top-down-ending-sexual-harassment-in-the-construction-industry) found that although women make up under 3% of construction workers, 88% of them have experienced sexual harassment at work, compared to only 25% of women in other jobs.
1.12.2. Con: Female construction workers will bring equality to cat-calling towards pedestrians.