Discussion Title: Should we privatize postal services?

1. Governments should provide postal services.
1.1. Con: In the US, the Postal Service brings with it laws that keep the private sector from offering better service than the post office, hurting consumers. [mentalfloss.com](http://mentalfloss.com/article/26424/why-cant-you-start-rival-post-office)
1.2. Pro: Postal services “bind the nation” together \(Title 39 U.S.C\)
1.2.1. Con: The main services the Postal Service provides that private carriers do not are junk mail and bills. The typical person's response to these is not a feeling of camaraderie and appreciation for fellow society.
1.2.2. Con: Gifts and personal correspondence could be considered useful in binding the nation together, but gifts are usually sent via private carriers rather than entrusted to the post office. Personal correspondence could easily be sent this way as well.
1.3. Con: Governments should not compete against the private sector.
1.3.1. Pro: The private sector in virtually every country provides food to people, something clearly more important than mail. Why then can we not trust it with the mail?
1.4. Con: People are forced to pay for the Post Office regardless of whether it suits their needs. This reduces the bureaucracy's incentive to provide excellent service.
1.5. Con: Over-regulation and government interference stifles innovation and productivity.
1.5.1. Con: The well-being of a nation's citizens depends on sound regulation and rules imposed by the government. Without these rules and regulations, private sector postal service providers could profit off the shipment of items that are harmful to the general public. \(i.e. illegal drugs, weapons, invasive species, etc\)
1.5.1.1. Con: Most countries already have private sector companies that can already profit off these activities. The presence or absence of a post office has no impact on how many illicit items the private sector can ship.
1.5.1.2. Con: In the US, the 2001 anthrax attacks were sent via the US Post Office, not by any private carrier. This demonstrates that the government is not able to prevent illicit materials from being shipped.
1.5.1.3. Con: Usually, these items are already illegal for private carriers to ship. The presence or absence of a post office does not make them more or less illegal to ship.
1.6. Pro: Without universal, affordable postal services, people in rural communities would be unfairly overcharged and/or under-served.
1.6.1. Con: Online shopping, drone delivery, and driverless cars are on the rise. These technologies foreshadow a boom in the delivery business. Competition among carriers has so far driven down the price and driven up quality, and there's no reason to assume that won't continue.
1.7. Con: Universal postal services are prohibitively costly, and only make sense for private emterprises in densely populated areas.
1.7.1. Pro: [Robert Shapiro](http://fortune.com/2015/03/27/us-postal-service/) estimates that $18 billion are funneled to the USPS annually.
1.7.2. Pro: In America, people in small communities are generally Republicans and also disapprove of the Post Office and the federal government intruding on their lives.
1.8. Pro: Citizens deserve to be informed, and not providing postal service would keep disadvantaged citizens from being informed.
1.8.1. Con: Libraries provide access to information in the form of books and the internet, even to the homeless who often lack a means of receiving mail. The post office provides little if anything that competes with that level of access.
1.9. Con: Government should not be in the business of providing advertising for companies trying sell things.
1.9.1. Pro: Laws are in place to prohibit telemarketers from disturbing people. Email companies fight hard to battle spam. Only a government institution could get away with allowing as much junk mail as it the post office allows.
1.10. Pro: In the US, the Post Office is the hub of many small communities and provides the only presence of the Federal government many communities ever see.
1.10.1. Con: -> See 1.7.2.