Discussion Title: Should single women/men be allowed the use of IVF to have their own children?

1. Single women/men should be allowed the use of IVF to have their own children.
1.1. Pro: Allowing single people to have children would satisfy what is a fundamental instinct in all human beings to procreate.
1.1.1. Con: Not all human beings want to have children, meaning it is not necessarily a fundamental instinct.
1.2. Pro: This is better than a child being born into a family destined for divorce and break up
1.2.1. Con: It's not clear how it can be determined that a family is destined to divorce.  It still doesn't justify IVF if divorce is not a certainty.
1.2.2. Pro: Young children [can be damaged](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/health/children/10900948/Separated-parents-are-damaging-children-by-sharing-their-care-expert-claims.html) if they are forced to split their time between separated parents.
1.3. Con: There are significant [risks](https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/271785.php) associated with IVF, which outweigh the benefits.
1.3.1. Pro: IVF carries a slightly higher risk of an [ectopic pregnancy](https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/ivf/risks/), where the embryo implants in the fallopian tubes rather than in the womb.
1.3.2. Pro: IVF [success rates](http://americanpregnancy.org/infertility/in-vitro-fertilization/) are very low, given the high investment required.
1.4. Con: The children born this way will experience growing up without a father/mother figure.
1.4.1. Con: This is also true of children born of single parents without IVF, and yet we don't ban it.
1.4.1.1. Con: Most single parents not using IVF start out planning to stay with their partner. However, using IVF is completely intentional.
1.4.2. Pro: It is selfish of the parent to have a child this way, as his/her "desperation" to have a child is being put before everything else, including the child's welfare.
1.4.2.1. Con: This 'desperation' to have a child is likely to turn into a particularly strong concern for the child's welfare once they come into the world.
1.4.2.1.1. Pro: The appreciation for how difficult it was to have a child may make single parents from IVF better, more caring parents than those who had children accidentally or without too much effort.
1.4.2.2. Con: This assumes that the welfare of a child born to a parent through IVF will necessarily be worst than that of a child born naturally, which is unjustified.
1.4.2.3. Con: Every decision to bring a child into the world is meeting some selfish desire to procreate.
1.4.3. Con: Many children grow up in patchwork families. It is not unusual to have a non-traditional family background anymore.
1.5. Pro: Single parents getting IVF is preferable to other forms of starting a family alone.
1.5.1. Pro: Allowing IVF for single parents would eliminate the need for women to trap men by falling pregnant and tying him down with a child he doesn't want in the first place.
1.5.2. Pro: Using IVF is a far better method than having a one night stand with someone that isn't verified to have good genetics and isn't disease-free.
1.6. Con: Single parents suffer social consequences that are detrimental to their wellbeing.
1.6.1. Pro: Single parents can be stigmatised by society for failing to conform to a normative familial structure.
1.6.2. Pro: Single parents are more likely to become lonely, which can affect their mental health.
1.7. Pro: As with normal families, it is the parent's choice to have a child on their own free will, not the government's.
1.7.1. Pro: People have the right to assess the risk relative to their desire to start a family. If they deem the risk acceptable, we must not interfere with their right.
1.7.2. Con: Governments can intervene when they think bringing a child into the world might threaten a child's future welfare.
1.8. Con: Single parents are less capable of providing for the needs of a child.
1.8.1. Pro: There is only one income that can feed a child.
1.8.1.1. Pro: Up to [one in three children](https://news.sky.com/story/poverty-report-highlights-working-single-parent-families-11259919) with a working single parent is living in poverty.
1.8.2. Con: Children of single parents enjoy the undivided attention of the parent.