Discussion Title: Should the US Ban the Production and Distribution of Genetically Modified Foods?

1. The US should ban the production and distribution of genetically modified foods.
1.1. Con: GM produce requires less tilling to remove weeds, thus protecting the soil.
1.1.1. Con: There is doubt over the environmental benefits of reduced tilling.
1.1.2. Pro: [“The adoption of conservation tillage and no-tillage have been about 10% and 20% higher, respectively, due to the advent of glyphosate tolerant soybeans.”](https://academic.oup.com/ajae/article-abstract/98/3/765/2195952)
1.1.3. Con: Biomimicry design principles in sustainable agriculture systems for example Permaculture or Aquaponics need less tilling than any mono-culture practices [en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Permaculture) [en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aquaponics)
1.1.4. Con: The claim that GMO crops need less tilling is not true because there are methods to not till at all, no-till farming Quote: Organic management practice often rely on the use of normal, non-dyed corrugated cardboard for use on seed-beds and vegetable areas [en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No-till_farming)
1.1.4.1. Con: Does all traditional farming methods use these no tilling methods? If they do then the claim is false, if the use of GM crops reduces the tilling vs the vast majority of crops then it's still a pro for GM crops.
1.2. Con: Genetic modification means that fewer pesticides and herbicides are necessary.
1.2.1. Pro: With genetic modification, plants can produce their [own insecticide](https://www.treehugger.com/green-food/taking-close-look-insecticide-producing-crops.html), rather than needing spraying with potentially toxic chemicals.
1.2.2. Con: The main producer of GMO seeds modifies their seeds to resist their own pesticides and herbicides with the consequence only GMO crops survive and fields get contaminated
1.2.2.1. Con: RoundUp ready crops are only one type of GM product. There are many types of GM products that are not related to herbicide tolerance, a trait which is used to reduce pesticide use.
1.2.2.2. Con: "Fields get contaminated" doesn't make any sense. Fields get contaminated with what?
1.3. Con: Genetic modification means less money spent producing food.
1.3.1. Con: Fewer people can live from farming, in that case.
1.3.2. Con: The fact that GMO foods are patented will increase the chance that the monopoly will artificially higher the prices.
1.3.2.1. Con: Patents are used to create differentiated products in the market that have extra value and will sell more. They are not used to drive up prices. Farmers remain free to grow whatever crops they want.
1.4. Pro: There can still be disappointing crop yields; it is not a perfect science.
1.4.1. Con: Recent research has shown that conventional crops yield up to 20% more produce than organic.  The link provided, shows conventional crops only yield 9% more than organic when superior organic techniques were used. Although 9% is still a sizeable gap, it is not as large as previously thought.  [news.berkeley.edu](http://news.berkeley.edu/2014/12/09/organic-conventional-farming-yield-gap/)
1.4.2. Con: Conventional mono-crops share DNA and will have identical immune systems.  This heightens the risk of losing the whole crop if a disease spreads throughout every plant. Biodiversity of plants in an organic crop can prevent the spread of disease since plants will have different immune systems.  An organic crop is not likely to lose all yield if a portion of crop catches disease.
1.4.3. Con: This is the [Nirvana Fallacy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nirvana_fallacy). Just because it isn't a perfect solution doesn't mean we shouldn't consider it as a viable option. Things improve with time and experience. And not trying it won't stop disappointing crop yields.
1.4.4. Con: If GMOs have disappointing crop yields, that is not a reason to ban them.
1.4.5. Pro: GMO proliferation reduces natural diversity \(already at a historic low point\). In turn, this can lead to massive contagions: if there are 100 kinds of bananas growing, a pathogen is likely to affect 60-70 of them at worst. If there are 3, the entire crop could be easily lost. GMO manufacturers are hardly procupied with diversity. [The banana case](https://www.wired.com/2017/03/humans-made-banana-perfect-soon-itll-gone/)
1.4.5.1. Con: Introducing more species, whether GM or not, increases diversity.
1.5. Pro: Potential to create "super weeds" that have evolved a resistance to common herbicides.
1.5.1. Con: This is a risk regardless, as with bacterial resistance to antibiotics. Weeds will naturally evolve towards herbicide resistance.
1.5.2. Con: This discussion is about GMOs, not the use of herbicides.
1.6. Con: People should have the right to choose what they eat. The government should never ban any food items.
1.6.1. Con: While this sounds good, never is too strong. Making choices of what to eat can have implications for others. So, choice is not unlimited. In particular, if cultivating GMO crops causes environmental hazards, there would be a trade-off between the risk to society and individual choice that would justify restricting choice if the hazard were sufficiently large or probable.
1.6.2. Con: That is not a principle that our society seems willing to adopt. Taken literally, this would mean that there are no restrictions or regulations of any drugs or many other things.
1.6.3. Con: This is not universally true; for example, for human consumption as a continuous food source restrictions will be needed to prevent a legal use of the consumption of human flesh.
1.7. Con: GMOs are not bad by default. The burden of proof is to show what is harmful and possibly banning that. But banning all GMOs would be wrong because they are not all harmful.
1.7.1. Pro: It's not just crops that genetic engineering helps; bear in mind the functional extinction of the American chestnut, the American elm, the existence of phytophthera in the southeastern U.S. -- nature cannot fight these fungi fast enough. Now we're losing white ash trees, hemlocks, spruces, and fir trees to foreign insects. How can we ensure these important species continue to thrive if we ignore the science that can save them? Source: [www.nrs.fs.fed.us](https://www.nrs.fs.fed.us/tools/afpe/)
1.7.2. Pro: Roughly 90% of cheese in the USA is made from fermentation produced chymosin, which is a thickening agent and created using GM e-coli. Before that innovation, cheese was made using rennet, which is the stomach lining of unweaned calves and a biproduct of the veal industry. Returning to this source of chymosin would increase cruelty to animals and substantially increase the cost of cheese.
1.7.2.1. Con: You only need to harvest the rennet culture once. Therefore there is very little impact on animals from traditional rennet.
1.7.3. Pro: The EU has built up the largest collection of independent testing of GM crops. It has been ongoing since the 90s and is all available online. The EU allows all member states to produce and consume GM crops as they see fit. They found no specific concerns with GM crops. [ec.europa.eu](https://ec.europa.eu/food/plant/gmo_en)
1.7.4. Pro: Cross-breeding plants by grafting or other methods is genetically modifying them. The difference is what degree of control over exact results we have. Genetically Modified has become a fear phrase and public education and more scientific study is needed, not bans.
1.7.4.1. Pro: GMO crops are not inherently bad. They are still plants.  The problem begins when they are doused with chemicals. A chemical ban would be more appropriate, as herbicides are being linked to carcinogenicity. Once again, genetically modifying a plant is not a bad thing. Selective breeding has been around for a long time in order to create stronger characteristics in plants. Chemicals are the problem.[thelancet.com](http://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanonc/article/PIIS1470-2045\(15\)70134-8/fulltext)
1.7.4.1.1. Con: They are not doused with "chemicals". Also, chemicals are not all the same and they are needed.
1.7.4.2. Pro: GMOs are economically more attractive than their natural counterparts, but the latter have been proved to some extent to be environmentally viable. We shouldn't say "ban" GMOs, we should say "impose more responsibility", which could lead for example to medium-long term environment impact studies before approval.
1.8. Pro: GMO increases corporate hold over food production through their [patents](https://monsanto.com/company/media/statements/lawsuits-against-farmers/).
1.8.1. Con: Patents will expire and technology behind the patents can benefit food production in general.
1.8.2. Con: Food patents are not limited to GM varieties. You can patent crops created with different techniques, including organic produce. This has nothing to do with banning GM produce.
1.8.3. Con: Farmers are free to grow whichever crops they see fit.
1.8.4. Pro: GMO's have a terminator gene that means the seed can't be reused by farmers. This means farmers need to buy new seed every year potentially cutting into their profits.
1.8.4.1. Con: Farmers are free to choose other seeds that have better profitability for them.
1.8.4.2. Con: Termination gene is a way of creating a viable business model. Banning that will cut into profits of the GMO producer.
1.8.4.3. Con: Many farmers don't see a benefit in saving seeds. The practice has been dying out long before GM produce became available.
1.9. Pro: Our bodies know how to recognise and process current foods; changing them through genetic modification will create health issues.
1.9.1. Con: Cross breeding is genetic modification and can create dangerous foods \(i.e. Lenape potatoes.\) We created most modern foods through such genetic modification. Wheat, corn, melon, bananas. They all were vastly different before humans got to changing their DNA.
1.9.2. Pro: Human populations are ingesting bacterial toxins created by GMO plants.
1.9.2.1. Con: Which specific toxin is being referred to here? Bt, which is found naturally in soil and is safe for human consumption? If so this is not a valid argument. Toxicity is not binary.
1.9.2.2. Con: Our guts are a mess of bacterial growth, we are constantly ingesting bacterial 'toxins'.
1.9.2.3. Con: Rather than this being evidence for banning GMO outright, this should be an impetus for greater study and understanding. While our bodies process trillions of toxins and viruses and bacteria every day \(breathing, drinking, eating, touching\) we should minimize as much as is possible.
1.9.3. Con: There is no evidence for this.
1.9.3.1. Pro: The claim that GMO food contains 'bacterial toxins' is untrue, and may be based on genetic modification techniques which introduce genes into a cell by means of a DNA fragment called a vector, which includes an antibiotic resistance gene so cells containing the vector can be isolated. This gene is not present in modern GM crops - and anyway is not a 'bacterial toxin'.
1.9.4. Con: Our body does not read the DNA of the plant before digesting it. Our body processes basic materials. Proteins, carbohydrates, lipids. As long as we aren't introducing something new in terms of plant materials, there is no issue with digestibility.
1.9.5. Con: This conclusion does not follow from the premise. What health issues have been found just because something was modified? Further, our bodies have evolved as our food has evolved since the beginning of our species - that will likely continue, though GMOs can evolve faster than humans.
1.9.6. Con: There is no evidence to suggest this would be true. "Current foods" doesn't even follow your logic. Foods continually evolve and cross-breed naturally. If we evolved at a specific point in time to "recognize" a specific set of foods we would stop being able to eat them as they evolve and cross-breed. We would also only "recognize" foods that were only available to us when we evolved this ability, which is likely little of fruits/veggies that even your grandparents ate. This simply isn't logical.
1.9.7. Pro: The long term impacts of genetically modified foods can be measured in health impacts. Will these foods correlate with cancer or other potentially fatal illnesses. What about impacts on reproductive health? Even the length of time for medicine to conduct clinical trials, it may be too late to reverse the impacts of genetically modified crops.
1.9.7.1. Con: Long term impacts have been studied since the 90s and no increase in risk from conventional produce has been highlighted. GM foods are one of the most intensely studied subjects and a scientific consensus has been reached.
1.9.8. Pro: Genetic modifications targeting resistance to glyphosates \(roundup\) has lead to increased use of the chemicals.  These herbicides find their way into the food supply and destroy the gut biome of those consuming them.
1.9.8.1. Con: This claim is false. RoundU has reduced pesticide usage, one of it's key selling points to farmers, fewer applications, lower intensity applications, less cost, and at a lower toxicity compared to the pesticides they replaced.