Discussion Title: Should wearing fragrance be prohibited at work?

1. Wearing fragrance should be prohibited at work.
1.1. Pro: A fragrance can be distracting to others so wearing one where other people might take offense should be avoided.
1.1.1. Con: In cases where fragrances offend other people, this can be taken care of via personal communication and without outright prohibiting fragrances.
1.1.2. Con: In general not all fragrances are strong enough to rob attention from people standing near by. 
If the person is with this feeling, she/him could move further away in order to avoid that distraction.
1.1.3. Pro: Some fragrances are too strong or are abusively used by some people and that could lead to an overall bad feeling of people around that person in a situation where people can't move away. The wearer should understand the limits of the fragrance they are wearing.
1.2. Con: Instituting blanket bans over something based on hypothetical possibilities is absurd. Just because something could happen, doesn't mean it doe_ happen. A ban on fragrances if they actually are offending others would be much more reasonable.
1.3. Con: When someone is bothered by somebody's fragrance, the simple solution is to talk with him/her about that.
1.3.1. Con: Fragrance is very personal, so people might feel awkward complaining about them. A policy could make this easier.
1.3.2. Pro: Creating policy for everything that could be solved by civil conversation creates a very unfree climate.
1.4. Con: You are wearing fragrance, whether you deploy it voluntarily or not. Smell of sweat is not necessarily better than the smell of perfume.
1.5. Pro: A fragrance is hard to ignore, so people shouldn't wear fragrances in public spaces so they won't bother others.
1.6. Con: People and situations always have a smell. If you wear a fragrance or not, you will always bring a smell in to the room - so it is difficult to draw a line.
1.6.1. Con: The line falls between smells that are genuinely beyond one's control and smells which result from deliberate choice.
1.7. Pro: Some people get headaches smelling a certain fragrance, which will make them less capable to do their jobs. This would be bad for profit, so a company should discourage the use of fragrances in the office.
1.7.1. Con: Wheather someone has headaches with some sorts of smell or specific fragrances must be understood as a health issue as most of times its a symptom for an allergie or other nasal irritation. 

In that case it is the persons responsibility to look upon her/his health issue and not penalize other people by prohibiting the use of fragrances in order to avoid it.
1.7.2. Pro: Fragrances are chemicals, often dangerous to the health of the individual and other employees, and therefore should be prohibited or at least discouraged.
1.7.2.1. Con: The chemicals in a perfume are rigorously tested to be health-safe even in close contact with the body, so they will not endanger people sitting in a room smelling them.
1.7.2.1.1. Con: Perfumes can trigger allergic reactions and asthma attacks. Preventing this should be a greater priority than preserving the freedom to wear a fragrance in a confined space.
1.8. Con: The use of fragrance can make people feel more comfortable and less worried about any odors they might produce
1.9. Con: Fragrance is a personal matter and can be an expression of personality and identity.
1.9.1. Con: It is easy to avoid many instruments of self-expression, for example by looking away. Fragrance is different: one cannot easily "smell away" and ignore it.
1.9.2. Con: Those applying for a job should not wear perfume to an [interview](https://www.forbes.com/sites/leahbourne/2012/02/07/should-you-wear-perfume-to-work/#51deae7e242d). Thus, there is already a restriction in personal freedom.
1.9.3. Con: One's freedom ends when it interferes with someone else's freedom, such as when one's fragrance is inhibiting someone else's ability to breathe.
1.9.4. Pro: Fragrances can produce stronger identities and leave lasting impressions that make relationships more stable over time. The same fragrance, encountered years later, can remind you of the individual that once wore it.
1.9.5. Pro: The type of fragrance tells something about another person.
1.9.6. Con: Many forms of personal expression are already prohibited in the workplace. Employees that favor legalizing marijuana or protecting the unborn are generally discouraged from wearing marijuana or pro-life memorabilia in the office.
1.10. Con: People use a lot of fragranced products: from shampoos or laundry detergent to soap and perfume. You can't prohibit all fragranced products because it's just not realistic.
1.10.1. Con: While the products cannot be prohibited, it can be made clear through a social norm that those with a strong fragrance are not welcome in certain environments.