Discussion Title: Should be homework be mandatory?

1. Homework should be mandatory.
1.1. Pro: Homework is a tool for teachers to make sure that their students have learned the things that they taught in school that day.
1.1.1. Pro: In many subjects, such as natural sciences, expanding on school lab exercises at home ensures students have grasped the concept of a lesson.
1.1.2. Con: Homework doesn't provide any proof that the child understood the topic. At home, children can ask for help, or copy the answers. It would be rather useful to have a small test at the end of the day, during school time, without stealing the child's free time.
1.2. Con: No time for doing homeworks after school and hobbies
1.2.1. Con: Having to plan time for doing homework teaches students time-management skills.
1.2.1.1. Con: Having to plan time for doing homework during class can do this as well.
1.3. Con: Answering questions and fulfilling exercises can be very helpful for someone, while for others it can be a totally useless waste of time. Why should someone who has alreay learnt and understood the topic waste all of his youth writing obvious things on a book? It will look more like a punishment than some kind of help, and it may cause the student to feel hatred toward the scholastic system.
1.4. Pro: More topics can be covered if part of the topic is covered in homework
1.4.1. Con: Yes, and if the child studies literally 24/7 he could cover even more. But I don't think anyone in his same mind would consider that a solution. Plus, why should the children be able to learn the new argument by himself? Wouldn't it mean that the teacher is useless?
1.5. Con: School shouldn't outsource teaching to parents
1.5.1. Con: Helping with homework can be a way for families to connect and learn together.
1.5.1.1. Pro: Building a support network is the basis for dealing with setbacks, and ensuring success later on.
1.5.2. Pro: Conditions and ability to do homework vary from family to family. Kids with less supporting/able parents struggle even more to keep up in school compared to the more fortunate ones.
1.5.3. Con: Parents who have not received a formal education will not be able to provide the same quality of help as a parent that has.
1.6. Pro: Doing homework empowers children
1.6.1. Con: Homework does not empower children. It is the opposite of empowerment. It often forces them to spend additional time and resources on irrelevant concepts without immediate feedback resulting in insufficient levels of learning.
1.6.2. Pro: Homework [teaches](https://www.thoughtco.com/why-homework-is-good-sometimes-bad-607848) students how to teach themselves and work independently.
1.6.2.1. Pro: When they get stuck with their homework, students learn to deal with frustration.
1.6.2.2. Pro: Doing homework teaches problem-solving.
1.6.3. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.
1.6.4. Pro: Homework allows students to take more time on an activity to do their best without as many social pressures in the classroom.
1.7. Con: Homework is an extra effort for kids. Parents don't have homework from work.
1.7.1. Con: Many parents do have work they must bring home to get jobs done.
1.8. Pro: As parents must think about work after the working hours, so should kids think about school topics
1.8.1. Con: No, you have to work during the working hours, that's why they are called like that. You can think about your work during free time, and you can actually work during your free time, but you can as well relax, pracice sport or hobbies... and that's why it is called free time.
1.9. Con: The only time to do homework with kids is either right after school when parents are at work, or in the evenings when both parents and kids are tired.