Discussion Title: Should Art Made By Abusers Be Removed From Cultural Institutions?

1. Art made by abusers should be removed from cultural institutions.
1.1. Con: The function of art is not to present or embody moral clarity.
1.1.1. Pro: [Political cartoons](http://www.pbs.org/opb/historydetectives/feature/political-cartoons/) points out what goes wrong in politics by revealing it so people \(citizens, politicians\) could address it
1.1.2. Con: The function of art depends on the context.
1.1.3. Con: The action of removing art needn't imply that art has this function \(or any particular function\).
1.1.4. Pro: It is the purpose of cultural institutions to put us in situations where we feel morally uncomfortable, e.g. by enjoying or loving something made by someone whose behaviour we abhor.
1.2. Con: Abuse is an ambiguous concept.
1.2.1. Pro: As "abuse" is an ever-shifting and changing term, society may remove art now that is not considered problematic in the future.
1.2.1.1. Pro: Curators or anthologists are not trained to decide on moral questions.
1.2.1.2. Con: This may not be a problem, however, because cultural institutions are capable of change.
1.2.1.2.1. Con: This would be a problem, as the art that people have no access to can be forgotten, and thus never be displayed again.
1.2.2. Pro: All bad behaviour is not equivalent.
1.2.2.1. Con: -> See 1.2.1.1.
1.2.2.2. Pro: If we took the top-level thesis as a general rule, it could be deliberately or accidentally mis-applied.
1.2.2.3. Pro: The general rule could be too vague to help guide action in specific circumstances.
1.2.2.4. Con: All rules can be misinterpreted or poorly applied. This does not prove the rule is useless or wrong.
1.2.2.4.1. Con: Rules that can be eaisly abused should be avoided.
1.2.2.5. Con: Punishment may not be the goal of removing a person's artwork, however, in which case the second part of this objection is irrelevant to the top-level thesis.
1.2.3. Con: It is a moral duty to disambiguate it rather than to relax into inaction.
1.2.3.1. Con: Morality is subjective, thus humanity is unable to clearly disambiguate what is acceptable behavior.
1.3. Con: Displaying the art is not equivalent to condoning the abuse.
1.3.1. Pro: The artist is separate from the art.
1.3.1.1. Con: Actually art often represents how an artist sees and thinks of the world and it also shows what goes on in their head.
1.3.1.2. Pro: It is unnecessary to devise punishments for an artist that are different from punishment any person would receive for abusive behaviour.
1.3.1.2.1. Con: Removing art from walls or barring a performer from a festival is a more appropriate consequence for the abuser than whatever might be provided by the criminal justice system.
1.3.1.2.1.1. Con: A criminal act should be met with a criminal punishment; anything less than that minimizes the severity of their actions.
1.3.1.2.1.2. Con: Same crime should suffer same consequences regardles of the culprit. Moreover the purpose of justice isn't to punish, or make anyone suffer, but to avoid further commitment of crime. That is why civilised countries use isolation in humane conditions, that encourage resocialisation; and why public executions or torture are much less popular than in the past.
1.3.1.2.2. Pro: The current criminal justice system, plus less formal types of power like majority attitudes and behaviour, already attain the goals of the top-level proposal here.
1.3.1.2.3. Pro: The abused person can still be helped and the abuser can still be punished. Penalizing the artist's abuse and displaying the art are not mutually exclusive. They should be penalized the same way as anyone else; not by having their art removed.
1.3.1.2.3.1. Pro: A better option would be to continue showing said "art" but all proceeds that would normally go to the artist should go to an anti-abuse organisation instead.
1.3.1.2.4. Con: If the artist in question is deceased, then there are no other ways to express condemnation of their behavior.
1.3.1.3. Con: The monetary value of art is directly tied to the notoriety of the artist.
1.3.1.3.1. Con: A painting by Hitler recently was auctioned off, and sold for ~$30,000, next to nothing in the art world. Art is a personal thing, and the connection with the artist is almost as important as the art. Nobody decent connects with abusers.
1.3.1.3.1.1. Con: $30,000 is probably a lot for an amateur painter.
1.3.1.4. Pro: Art, regardless of its source, serves a beneficial purpose to culture
1.3.1.5. Con: As a society we have to decide whether or not we want to 'separate the artist from the art'.
1.3.2. Con: A portion of money that is spent consuming art \(whether purchasing a painting, viewing a movie, listening to music, etc.\) goes to the artist; so by paying them, a person is in fact providing direct support to the abuser regardless of their intention.
1.3.2.1. Con: The money paid is for the art, not for the abuse; the same way you pay a baker for bread regardless of if he beats his wife or not.
1.4. Con: The punishment of removing art created in part by an abuser also indirectly punishes collaborators, who may or may not be culpable. Innocent people are punished for actions they did not commit.
1.4.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.1.2.3.
1.5. Pro: Celebrating works by abusive artists perpetuates a culture of abuse.
1.5.1. Pro: Abusive artists can gain authority which allows them to behave even more badly.
1.5.1.1. Con: Appreciating someone's art does not equate to a blanket acceptance nor endorsement of their behavior.
1.5.1.2. Con: As the #metoo movement has shown, [celebrities](https://www.vox.com/a/sexual-harassment-assault-allegations-list) can no longer expect to commit crimes and simply get away with it. They will face the same consequences as everyone else; and if anything, abuse accusations will lead to their authority being diminished.
1.5.1.2.1. Con: It is unfair to the artist if they are allowed to have their careers ruined based on unprovable allegations potentially dating back decades.
1.5.2. Con: By that same logic, celebrating or even accepting the positions of some of our politicians perpetuates a culture of abuse towards the people and a general indifference, shouldn't they be removed from their positions as well?
1.5.3. Con: Simply the fact that an artist is also an abuser does not mean that their art teaches abuse.
1.5.3.1. Pro: People can still draw inspiration and interpret positive messages from these abusers' creations. In no way does it have to follow that such art will teach people to be abusers.
1.5.3.2. Con: Whether the art 'teaches' abuse is irrelevant to whether cultural celebrations of the art perpetuate abuse.
1.5.3.2.1. Con: If the art does not teach abuse then it does not perpetuate abuse. Therefore if some external cultural celebration teaches abuse then that has nothing to do with the art it celebrates.
1.5.3.2.1.1. Con: The concern is not that the art itself perpetuates abuse, but that the act of displaying it does.
1.5.3.2.1.1.1. Pro: If an abusive person can be lauded by society for their contributions, then others might assume that committing abuse has no bearing on achieving success. This therefore perpetuates abuse because it means that abusive people are less likely to see any reason why they should stop.
1.5.4. Con: Art itself does not normally make any statement about abuse.
1.5.4.1. Con: Not only was rape a [common theme](http://employees.oneonta.edu/farberas/arth/arth200/Heroic_Rape.html) throughout classical art, but it was also painted/sculpted in such a way so as to glorify and romanticize the act.
1.5.4.2. Con: -> See 1.5.3.2.1.1.
1.5.4.3. Con: What a work of art 'states' is not relevant to the parent claim here.
1.5.5. Pro: Celebrating abusers' art propagates the message that any malicious or harmful actions a person performs are outweighed by their successes.
1.5.6. Con: We do not expect to ever rid ourselves of a 'culture of abuse'. Attempts to do so must therefore be considered fruitless.
1.6. Pro: This move could discourage future abuses.
1.6.1. Con: Such a move could discourage contributing art to society, as it can induce fear of being judged on matters irrelevant to the art itself.
1.6.2. Pro: In the moment of committing an abuse, a person usually acts on impulses formed in the past; therefore stories of colleagues losing institutional support will instill fears in a person's mind, which might exert force during such moments.
1.6.3. Con: Abusers usually do not consider their behaviours to be abusive, therefore it is unlikely that punishments specifically aimed at 'abuse' would deter them.
1.7. Con: Most of literature, music, and the visual arts would disappear.
1.7.1. Pro: All art would eventually disappear. Since society normally finds out more about a person after they died, if we apply both the current definition of abuse with what would have been deemed as abuse/illegal during that time period there would be no art on display by Picasso \(serial stalker/self-harming\), Michelangelo \(embezzlement from the church/lack of racial diversity in art\), and many others.
1.7.2. Pro: Some art is so culturally-relevant that taking it away is removing the existence of that culture.
1.7.2.1. Con: We should be willing to make exceptions to the general rule, based on specific circumstances.
1.7.2.2. Pro: Some art was made by rebels of a culture \(such as Manet and the Salon\), and removing their art would be equivalent to removing their portion of the story \(that represents the culture of the time\).
1.7.2.2.1. Con: This would only be true if all artists participating in this rebellious movement had their work removed.
1.7.3. Pro: Being an abusive person often stems from inner suffering and traumas. The same can be said for being a great artist. Removing such art would thus remove loads of excellent pieces.
1.7.3.1. Pro: Without the artist being allowed to think and create freely \(aka censored\), there probably would be little to no \(true\) art.
1.7.3.1.1. Con: Removing art from an institution does not prevent the artist from creating it, thinking freely, etc.
1.7.3.2. Pro: Art could be someone's outlet for their bottled-up emotions, thus and removing their incentive for displaying their art and expressing their inner feelings could make them increase their abusive behavior.
1.7.3.3. Pro: The job of an institution is to present excellent pieces.
1.7.3.4. Con: Being abused can also stifle a person's artistic output. By supporting abuse victims, institutions will encourage their careers, potentially allowing them to produce excellent work.
1.7.4. Con: We don't know this is true, because there is no way to measure all the art currently 'disappearing' due to the actions of high-profile abusers.
1.7.5. Con: It is statistically false to claim that the majority of art is created by abusers, therefore the concern that removing abuser's art would catalyze art's disappearance is an unrealistic one.
1.8. Con: Censoring art/media/achievement simply because you disagree with a social, political or other stance should not diminish the value in the art.
1.8.1. Pro: The art is controlled if it's filtered for political correctness. This invokes a propagandist direction by the cultural institutions themselves
1.8.1.1. Con: Removing art from a museum does not amount to demanding that all art be "politically correct."
1.8.2. Pro: Viewers, readers, or listeners should be presented with information about the artist's personal life that allows them to decide for themselves if they want to consume the art.
1.8.2.1. Pro: This could be a teaching moment to know what not to do.
1.8.2.2. Pro: This could offer us the potential benefits of presenting an artwork in a museum while mitigating the potential damage.
1.8.2.3. Con: This move risks minimizing the seriousness of the abuse.
1.8.2.4. Con: This move also risks exaggerating the seriousness of the abuse.
1.8.2.5. Con: This move gives too much power to curators to shape people's response to the artwork.
1.8.2.5.1. Con: Curators already shape the viewer's response by providing biographical and art critical information; introducing this type of information would not substantively change the curator's role.
1.8.2.5.2. Con: The information is powerful in this case, not the curator.
1.8.3. Pro: Any kind of censorship is harmful to humanities wellbeing and progress.
1.8.4. Con: The thesis does not propose removing artwork on the basis of disagreeing with some aspect of it.
1.8.4.1. Con: Even worse - the thesis proposes to disqualify art based on matters not neccessairly relevant to the art itself, and to punish the creation for its creators wrongdoings.
1.9. Con: Since art fosters discussion, then removing the art also removes a possibility for discussion about the artists abuse. If fewer people know then fewer people can change for the better.
1.9.1. Pro: It is generally agreed upon that spreading awareness is one of the most important steps towards ending [domestic violence](https://www.theodysseyonline.com/domestic-violence-awareness-axo), [sexual assault](http://college.usatoday.com/2017/04/25/we-need-to-advocate-all-the-time/), and other forms of abuse.
1.9.2. Con: The purpose of presenting artwork is not generally to spur discussion of the artist's abusive behaviour.
1.9.3. Con: The risk of encouraging or having no effect on abusive behaviour is greater than the chances of discouraging it in this scenario.
1.10. Pro: The pain of those suffering from the artist's behaviour is ignored.
1.10.1. Con: -> See 1.3.1.2.3.
1.10.2. Con: As long as the abusive behavior is not embodied in the art itself, the pain of those suffering will not be mitigated by destruction of the art.
1.10.2.1. Con: Why should depiction of abuse or wrongdoing disqualify art? Art is meant to depict emotions, also those perceived by most as evil. It allows viewers to experience these safely, and relieve urges that otherwise could sometimes be relieved by commitment of crimes.
1.10.2.2. Con: Removing art from an institution need not involve destroying it.
1.10.3. Pro: It is very painful for victims to see their abuser be lauded by society.
1.10.3.1. Pro: We owe the victims of abuse a certain level of community effort to reduce their pain.
1.11. Pro: Abusive people should suffer consequences.
1.11.1. Con: Removing art punishes gallery-goers or anthology readers as much as it punishes the artist.
1.11.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.1.2.3.1.
1.11.2. Con: -> See 1.3.1.2.
1.11.3. Con: Removing the artwork constitutes abusive behaviour towards the artist.
1.11.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.1.2.1.
1.11.3.2. Con: Art institutions could develop a procedure for removing artworks without causing psychological damage to the artist.
1.11.4. Pro: Losing the support of an institution can be an appropriate negative consequence for particularly bad actions.
1.12. Pro: Banning abusers' art would be beneficial to cultural institutions.
1.12.1. Pro: This move will help the cultural institution win the attention and appreciation of many people.
1.12.1.1. Pro: Those who are survivors of abuse themselves or advocates against it will appreciate that cultural institutions are standing by them in their public condemnation of abusive behavior.
1.12.1.2. Con: Conflict generates more attention than conformity.
1.12.1.3. Con: If the art is no longer shown only those who previously knew about it can be appreciative about it not being shown.
1.12.1.3.1. Con: It is likely that any attempts to remove abusers' artwork will receive media coverage, meaning that a much larger audience will become privy to this information.
1.12.1.4. Con: This move would also help the cultural institution win criticism from many people.
1.12.1.4.1. Con: Criticism may be a positive result if the institution's aim is to provoke deeper thought from society.
1.12.2. Pro: This move will make cultural institutions more effective.
1.12.2.1. Con: What are cultural institutions more effective in by not displaying certain works of art? Surely it isn't displaying art, wich is purpose of cultural institutions to begin with.
1.12.3. Con: Abusers' art should be banned so as to benefit the victims; not so that cultural institutions earn a quick boost to their public image.
1.12.4. Con: The purpose of cultural institutions is to allow people to keep open minds and present them with material that is often controversial. Arbitrary moral censorship doesn't benefit them but the agenda whose moral point of view is powerful at the time the censorship occurs.
1.12.5. Pro: This move sets up cultural institutions as powerful moral agents, which is generally a good thing.
1.12.5.1. Con: This can easily become repressive \(e.g., if you get a curator or anthologist removing work by queer artists on moral decency grounds\).
1.12.5.1.1. Pro: Example for repressive moral censorship is currently ISIS destroying ancient cultural heritage. Another example can be medieval destruction of genitalia of roman and greek statues in Europe. Censorship benefits only the censor.[news.nationalgeographic.com](https://news.nationalgeographic.com/2015/09/150901-isis-destruction-looting-ancient-sites-iraq-syria-archaeology/)
1.12.5.2. Con: Cultural institutions are led and managed by a select few. Attributing too much authority to any small group where societal values are concerned is very dangerous.
1.12.5.2.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.1.
1.12.5.2.2. Con: Being led by 'a select few' or 'a small group' is a characteristic of almost all our major moral voices in society.
1.12.5.3. Pro: We have many moral agents in society—media outlets, professional opinion writers, religious clerics, governments, prominent twitter accounts—and a cultural institution belongs among them.