Discussion Title: Should some teachers be armed?

1. Some teachers should be armed with guns.
1.1. Pro: There is a chance that a well-trained, armed teacher could shoot and kill a rampaging shooter, saving lives.
1.1.1. Con: The weapons that teachers would be equipped with would be ineffective against school shooters.
1.1.1.1. Con: A less adequate tool will still perform better than no tools at all.
1.1.1.2. Con: Carrying a better weapon \(as a shooter might\) does not change a person's vulnerability, and the weapons teachers would carry would be effective against a human. Even though the teachers might still be at a disadvantage, but they would be at less of a disadvantage than they are today.
1.1.2. Con: Being armed and trained in marksmanship is irrelevant to surviving and intervening in a public shooting situation.
1.1.2.1. Con: Being armed and trained does not make one invulnerable, but it is highly relevant to surviving a shooting.
1.1.2.2. Con: Obviously experts believe weapons and training are relevant since professionals always send armed and trained policemen into public shooting situations. There would be no point of all that training if it was irrelevant.
1.1.2.2.1. Con: Their training includes much broader areas than simply marksmanship.
1.1.2.2.1.1. Con: There is no reason to limit an armed teacher's training to just marksmanship either.
1.1.2.3. Pro: Chris Kyle, arguably one of America's most skilled shooters, and Chad Littlefield [were shot in public](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murders_of_Chris_Kyle_and_Chad_Littlefield) in 2012.
1.1.2.3.1. Pro: Training of any kind is largely irrelevant if you are shot in the [back](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/checkpoint/wp/2015/02/12/american-sniper-trial-at-least-two-gunshots-suffered-by-chris-kyle-were-fatal/?utm_term=.093190b8f91a).
1.1.2.4. Pro: School shootings are extremely stressful situations filled with panic and confusion. This makes it incredibly difficult for an armed teacher to utilize their marksmanship training and keep a level head.
1.1.2.4.1. Pro: These kind of situations are unique and impossible to mentally prepare for, and unlike police officers or military personnel, teachers aren't exposed to these kinds of situations prior to a school shooting.
1.1.2.4.2. Con: A teacher without a gun is even less likely to be able to utilize their marksmanship training. It would be better to give teachers the best chance possible.
1.1.2.4.3. Pro: In combat situations a large amount of soldiers [freeze and are unable to fire](http://www.historynet.com/men-against-fire-how-many-soldiers-actually-fired-their-weapons-at-the-enemy-during-the-vietnam-war.htm) upon the enemy despite huge amounts of training. It is unlikely teachers will be able to over-come the natural psychological issues involved in shooting another human reliably.
1.1.2.4.3.1. Pro: The psychological inhibitions that naturally make people uncomfortable with taking someone else's life would likely be heightened in a school shooting scenario, where an armed teacher would potentially be tasked with killing a child - and possibly a child with whom they have a teacher/student relationship.
1.1.2.5. Pro: A teacher may not have enough time to react to shoot the attacker first, especially without training.
1.1.2.5.1. Con: Anyone may or may not have time to react to an attack. This doesn't mean schools and teachers shouldn't prepare for one.
1.1.3. Con: In practice experienced police officers only hit their intended target under stress 30% of the time \([Time - Police shooting\)](http://nation.time.com/2013/09/16/ready-fire-aim-the-science-behind-police-shooting-bystanders/). Teachers will have neither the level of training that police offers so it would be expected that their accuracy would be even lower. This combined with a school having a lot of individuals clustered together \(students & pupils\) means this lack of accuracy could be deadly.
1.1.4. Con: School shooters are often students. Asking a teacher to potentially shoot at one of their own students - even in a life or death situation - could be doubly traumatic for those teachers.
1.1.4.1. Con: Asking a teacher to be defenseless against the student that is shooting at them could also be doubly traumatic for those teachers.
1.1.4.2. Con: No one is asking teachers to shoot anyone. Teachers who would prefer to be unarmed would be under no obligation to carry a weapon.
1.1.5. Con: If a teacher failed to stop a shooter, people would transfer blame to the teacher instead of the fact that an insane person was able to access a gun in the first place. The chance of stopping a shooter also comes with the chance of failing to do so, and this might have severe consequences for the involved teacher\(s\).
1.1.5.1. Con: The possibility of failure is a poor reason to not attempt to solve a problem.
1.1.6. Con: Even armed police officers are likely to be afraid of confronting active shooters. The officer present at the Parkland shooting did not engage, [likely for this reason](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/speaking-of-science/wp/2018/02/23/why-didnt-the-officer-rush-into-floridas-parkland-school-mass-shooting/?utm_term=.63ad25fac837). If people who are paid hesitate to do this, it is even less likely that teachers are going to do it.
1.1.6.1. Con: A person outside the battle is understandably reluctant to enter the conflict while a person confronted by an attacker within the battle has no choice. The shooter will confront the teacher whether the teacher is fearful or not.
1.1.6.2. Con: On the other hand, there are also examples of civilians intervening. It is therefore difficult to generalize.
1.1.6.2.1. Pro: During a church shooting in Texas, [Stephen Willeford](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/nov/06/stephen-willeford-johnnie-langendorff-texas-church-shooting) came running from his home with a rifle, firing at the shooter and giving chase.
1.1.6.3. Con: The teacher's life is already at risk when a shooter is present. Having a weapon available at that point is the best way to reduce the risk.
1.1.7. Con: Even a well trained armed teacher could accidentally shoot an innocent bystander while targeting a rampaging shooter.
1.1.7.1. Con: Even a well trained armed police officer could accidentally shoot an innocent bystander while targeting a rampaging shooter. This has in fact happened many times. Nonetheless,armed officers are still sent in to confront active shooters presumably because the possible benefits outweigh the possible costs.
1.1.7.1.1. Con: The officers we send in aren't sent indiscriminately, and have training in a lot more than just how to shoot a gun. It is hard enough to become a teacher. It is hard enough to become an officer. It is too much to ask someone to be both.
1.1.7.1.1.1. Pro: It's too much to ask someone to be both a teacher and a marshal. However, if someone volunteers to be both, then they should be allowed to be both.
1.1.7.1.1.1.1. Con: A lot more needs to go into it than just volunteering. They would have to commit to keeping up both skill sets at an expected level.
1.1.7.1.1.2. Con: Normally, an armed teacher should take shelter with as many students as he or she can protect rather than go out and search for the shooter. The training required for this would be minimal.
1.1.7.2. Con: The expected number of casualties from an unopposed shooter intentionally targeting students is much greater than the expected number of casualties from a teacher accidentally hitting students in the crossfire.
1.1.8. Con: There is no evidence that arming civilians \(like teachers\) stops shootings, even though civilians own [310 million guns collectively](https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2013/01/pro-gun-myths-fact-check/).
1.1.8.1. Con: It is unknown how many crimes, including murders, are prevented because the potential criminal was suddenly made aware that the target might be armed. Such statistics could only be reported by the potential criminal, who has absolutely no motivation for doing so.
1.1.9. Pro: The most effective self defense and defense of their students requires immediate action in the face of a threat. To stop the threat requires a well-trained teacher that possesses a weapon.
1.1.10. Con: A teacher cannot have as much training as a professional policeman or soldier or any member of the armed forces.
1.1.10.1. Pro: Teachers are not typically trained in "shootout" scenarios. This is a very specialized training more typical of military and law enforcement. Simply having a gun on hand is not the same as pointing it at another human being and pulling the trigger; especially during a chaotic situation.
1.1.10.2. Pro: It's unrealistic to expect armed teachers to react successfully in a surprise attack situation. Even highly trained law enforcement officers panic in real situations involving the exchange of gunfire.
1.1.10.2.1. Con: It is unrealistic to expect unarmed teachers to react successfully. It is very realistic to expect armed teachers to be more successful than unarmed teachers.
1.1.10.3. Con: Most US police officers train to shoot a very limited amount of time per year. This amount of training is easily reachable for any gun carrying volunteer on his spare time.
1.1.10.3.1. Pro: The vast majority of police training is not applicable to an \(likely\) indoor defensive gun use where only one possible weapon will be used. The part of police training required is a very small percentage of overall police training.
1.1.10.3.2. Con: Teachers already have very little spare time, and it is usually spent attending to students academic needs. It would be taking away from the time they could be helping students learn, by practicing how to potentially protect them from something they will most likely not experience.
1.1.10.3.2.1. Con: Despite how precious time is for teachers we still practice fire drills and other safety protocols which consume teachers' time. We often practice safety to potentially protect children from things they will most likely not experience. That's the entire point. Practicing with a firearm is not an unreasonable precaution.
1.1.10.3.2.1.1. Con: All the drills that a teacher performs in a school year do not nearly add up to the same amount of time required to keep and maintain their marksmanship.
1.1.10.3.3. Con: Just because they have practiced shooting their gun, and have a good aim, doesn't mean they will be effective in a active shooter situation. They could feel inclined to use their gun, and use it when they shouldn't, for example. Without training they would just be another shooter.
1.1.10.3.3.1. Con: A person with good aim and lots of practice is far more likely to be effective in an active shooter situation than a person without any practice. In either case a person with a firearm and no training is still going to be more effective than a person without any weapon. Simply the sight of a gun or the sound of return gunfire might be enough to slowdown an active shooter.
1.1.10.3.3.2. Con: -> See 1.1.7.1.1.2.
1.1.10.3.4. Con: Law enforcement training is not limited to marksmanship. In addition, police personnel over go extensive in-class education, field simulations and day-to-day work that as a whole count to the abilities of the individual. This amount of training is not achievable to most gun carrying volunteers.
1.1.10.3.4.1. Con: Extensive in-class education, field simulations and daily practice is an excessive amount of training for most gun carrying civilians. A gun can be an effective weapon with minimal training and skill. That's precisely why guns are so popular.
1.1.11. Pro: Teachers are often targets of active shooters, so they have strong incentives to use the gun in self defense rather than avoid resisting, which is what appears to be the case with officers who did not enter the building in a timely manner in the Parkland shooting.
1.1.12. Pro: Having several people on site who might be able to delay or end the threat greatly reduces the need to wait for proper first response to arrive, reducing the time window of attacks.
1.1.12.1. Pro: Response times average [at least 10 minutes](https://www.creditdonkey.com/average-police-response-time.html). In 10 minutes, many people can be killed or injured. Having a trained individual with a firearm in the school is really the only way to expect an immediate armed protector. Sometimes, even if the law enforcement personnel respond to the location of the shooting, they choose to [remain outside the school.](https://www.cnn.com/2018/02/23/politics/parkland-school-shooting-broward-deputies/index.html)
1.1.12.1.1. Con: Between 2000 & 2013 FBI found duration of mass shootings is \<5 min \(many ended in \<2 min\). As for police response time, Newtown shooting 2 min 41 sec after the first radio broadcast. Las Vegas concert grounds 0 minutes \(cops already at concert and in hotel\); Orlando nightclub=0 minutes police working as off-duty security outside. He shot at & missed the shooter, who retreated into the club. [\(p. 21\)](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0ahUKEwj9z8Pu6-zZAhWKmeAKHYVwB0YQFggoMAA&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.fbi.gov%2Ffile-repository%2Factive-shooter-study-2000-2013-1.pdf&usg=AOvVaw3OtZUZzLicU1gNBRFKUFE2).
1.1.12.2. Con: Additional armed persons on the scene could make it difficult for law enforcement personnel to identify the perpetrator.
1.1.12.2.1. Con: The possibility of an armed victim causing any confusion among law enforcement personnel is outweighed by the possibility of an armed victim stopping an attacker before law enforcement officials even arrive.
1.1.12.2.1.1. Con: A greatly increased number of weapons in school facilities greatly increase the likelyhood of a gun related accident, like an accidental discharge or improper storage of a firearm.
1.1.12.2.1.1.1. Con: In the U.S. there were [489 accidental gun deaths](http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-na-accidental-gun-deaths-20180101-story.html) in 2015 among 300 million guns. Accidents are extremely rare.
1.1.12.2.1.1.2. Con: There are approximately 3.6 million teachers, if 20% of them carried a gun, that means a rough estimate of fewer than 4 possible accidental shootings per year across the entire country \(the annual average is less than [0.0005%](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr66/nvsr66_06.pdf)\).
1.1.12.2.1.1.2.1. Pro: 17 people were murdered in Parkland alone, and general school shootings account for an average of [10 deaths per year.](https://mises.org/wire/there-are-fewer-school-shootings-now-during-1990s)Both of the latter two numbers would be decreased by armed teachers, lowering the total overall significantly more than the possible accidents.
1.1.12.2.1.1.3. Pro: A trained and armed teacher has already [fired a gun](https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2018/03/14/593531945/gun-trained-teacher-accidentally-shoots-gun-in-calif-high-school-classroom) in his classroom, accidentally harming a student. If we arm all teachers, this could become a serious problem.
1.1.12.2.1.1.3.1. Con: Accidents are unlikely to be a serious problem compared to school attacks. From [the link](https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2018/03/14/593531945/gun-trained-teacher-accidentally-shoots-gun-in-calif-high-school-classroom): "no one was seriously injured during the incident.". Meanwhile, there were [17 people killed](https://www.cnn.com/2018/02/15/us/florida-shooting-victims-school/index.html) in the most recent school shooting in Florida.
1.1.12.2.1.1.3.1.1. Con: It does not require a death for an accident to be tragic or traumatizing.
1.1.12.2.1.1.3.2. Con: If we disarm teachers then school shootings might become a serious problem.
1.1.12.2.1.1.3.2.1. Con: School shootings is already a serious problem.
1.1.12.2.1.1.3.3. Con: In this incident, the teacher was doing a demonstration with a gun as part of the class. This is not the same thing as arming teachers for protection and expecting them to keep the guns secured unless needed.
1.1.12.2.1.1.4. Con: A great increase in the likelihood of a gun related accident does not mean there's a high risk of a gun related accident. The risk of gun related accidents remains relatively low.
1.1.12.2.1.1.4.1. Con: The chance of a school shooting situation is minuscule but action is being taken against that - the chance of an accidental shooting by armed staff is far higher and multiplied by the amount of people involved across the country.
1.1.12.2.1.1.5. Pro: The presence of guns in a building with many children and few adults would lead to a rate of accidental firearm related casualties far greater than the "normal" household rate.
1.1.12.2.1.1.5.1. Con: Armed teachers would be expected to maintain control of their gun at all times \(generally in a holster, possibly with an added requirement for concealment\). Students would have no access to these guns at all. There is no evidence to suggest that these conditions would lead to a high rate of accidents.
1.1.12.2.2. Con: Teachers would have already been trained how to quickly react when police reach the scene, that being to put their gun down and say who they are etc.
1.1.12.2.2.1. Con: Given racial tensions in the United States, the success of these measures is not guaranteed for certain groups. Given the number of police shootings of peaceful black citizens \(both armed and unarmed\), arming teachers as a policy may reduce the number of black teaching applicants and harm diversity policies.
1.1.12.2.2.1.1. Con: Most of the highly publicized shootings of black men have not involved "peaceful black citizens.".
1.1.12.2.3. Con: The police should have already been notified as to the identity of the perpetrator. The police should be able to identify the correct shooter on sight. It should also be considered that if the police relied on looking for who has a weapon in order to know who the attacker is, then any shooter can just hide the weapon and escape easily.
1.1.12.2.3.1. Con: The police almost never have enough information to identify the suspect while responding to a mass shooting. They are usually relying on incomplete, faulty, and conflicting information.
1.1.12.2.3.1.1. Pro: They get a description, not a picture. Many other individuals could fit that description.
1.1.12.2.3.1.2. Pro: The Parkland shooting illustrates this: the [shooter​](https://www.floridatoday.com/story/news/2018/02/17/minute-minute-how-parkland-school-shooting-unfolded/345817002/) was able to evade the police by walking out of the school with other students.
1.1.12.2.4. Con: Armed teachers should not be wandering the school looking for the suspect, they should be sheltering in a secured room with as many students as they can. This drastically reduces the risk of police officers mistaking them for a suspect.
1.1.12.3. Con: Trained police only hit their intended target [30% of the time](http://nation.time.com/2013/09/16/ready-fire-aim-the-science-behind-police-shooting-bystanders/). Teachers are unlikely to be better than this and in a school many of the 70% of bullets which miss might injure the innocent.
1.1.12.4. Con: Arming and training teachers isn't financially possible. Education is underfunded as it is.
1.1.12.4.1. Con: Safety measures have priority and should be funded even if that means money is saved elsewhere.
1.1.12.4.2. Con: Training teachers is financially possible. Texas has trained over 100 teachers to serve as undercover school marshals at a cost of [$5000 to $7000](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/02/24/armed-teachers-texas-trump-362397) each. Some Texas districts also allow school staff carry guns, with or without the marshal training at a cost of zero dollars.
1.1.12.4.2.1. Pro: Examples such as a [free gun training program](https://www.foxbusiness.com/politics/hundreds-of-teachers-sign-up-for-free-gun-training-in-ohio) for teachers in Ohio with hundreds of participants show that a low-cost implementation is possible.
1.1.12.4.2.2. Con: Financing a similar marshal program for every school in the US would, nevertheless, be very costly. The country has a total of [more than 130.000](https://nces.ed.gov/fastfacts/display.asp?id=84) primary and secondary schools.
1.1.12.4.2.2.1. Pro: Providing every school with three marshals at a cost of about $6.000 would cost about $2.3 Billion in startup cost.
1.1.12.4.3. Con: The value of the students' lives outweigh the value of their education. Given the choice between funding better security and funding better education, security should win out. A well educated dead student is still dead.
1.1.12.4.3.1. Con: The parent claim implies that without security all/many students will die, but the probability that any specific student will be killed by a mass shooting is extremely unlikely. Thus, the thesis suggests sacrificing funding for 10s of millions of students’ education \(per year\) in the slight chance that [a few tens](http://www.latimes.com/business/hiltzik/la-fi-hiltzik-school-safety-20180316-story.html) will be saved per year.
1.1.12.4.3.1.1. Con: The parent claim implies that the current number of deaths among students in school shootings is acceptably low and it is appropriate to sacrifice those lives to ensure that the maximum funding for education is available.
1.1.12.4.3.2. Con: Improving education can reduce the likelihood of violence in the future, such as by [reducing poverty](https://luskin.ucla.edu/connection-poverty-inequality-firearm-violence/) and/or [unemployment](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2017/01/170130110908.htm), which are causes of/factors in family instability, depression, and many other factors which contribute to school shootings’ likelihood.
1.1.12.4.3.3. Con: Improving education and quality of schools can reduce feelings of marginalization, bullying, academic incompetence, and other factors which contribute to setting off school shooters.
1.1.12.4.4. Con: Arming teachers would cost a minuscule fraction of the cost to render harmless all the criminals and mentally ill who are potentially a threat.
1.1.12.4.4.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.12.4.2.
1.1.12.4.5. Pro: Teachers are frequently asked to [carry the burden](https://marketbrief.edweek.org/marketplace-k-12/survey_teachers_digging_into_own_pockets_to_buy_education_products/) of classroom supplies, decorations, etc. Inevitably the costs of firearms, training, ammunition and maintenance will be shunted to teachers.
1.1.12.4.5.1. Con: If no teacher is required to have weapons, then it doesn't matter if the cost is borne by the school or by the teacher.
1.1.12.4.6. Con: Teachers who are qualified and willing to carry guns at work could bring their own ones, thereby imposing no additional cost on the government.
1.1.12.4.7. Pro: If teachers carry guns, this also adds to the administrative burden and insurance costs.
1.1.12.4.7.1. Con: Not providing armed defense if that becomes the norm could raise liability insurance.
1.1.13. Pro: Most rampage shootings end very shortly after the shooter's fire is first returned, even when the shooters themselves are not injured. The earlier the shooter is fired upon, the more lives can be saved.
1.2. Con: By wishing to arm teachers the government abdicates its responsibility to keep citizens safe by transferring it onto the teachers.
1.2.1. Pro: It is the government's duty to protect its citizens and ensure their safety.
1.2.1.1. Con: Even if it's the government's duty to protect citizens, it's still in the citizens' best interests to be able to protect themselves.
1.2.1.2. Con: In the United States, the government derives its power and authority from its citizens. United States law recognizes that all people have an inalienable right to self-defense. Citizens delegate a portion of that responsibility to the state, but retain the individual right and responsibility as well.
1.2.1.3. Pro: The idea that the government shall protect its citizens stands at the beginning of American constitutional thought.
1.2.1.3.1. Pro: The [Pennsylvania Constitution of 1776](http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/pa08.asp) stated that government shall be for the  "protection and security of the people".
1.2.1.3.2. Pro: [James Hamilton](http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/fed17.asp) wrote in the Federalist Papers that state government shall be the "immediate and visible guardian of life and property" under the American constitution.
1.2.1.3.3. Con: Neither the American constitution nor the Bill of Rights oblige the government to ensure the safety of its citizens.
1.2.1.3.3.1. Con: Both the Constitution and the Bill of Rights refer primarily  to the rights and obligations of the federal government. At the time of their writing, the safety of citizens was deemed a task of state governments \([Heyman, p. 525](https://scholarship.law.duke.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=3172&context=dlj)\).
1.2.1.3.4. Con: While true, the state is more appropriately responsible for protecting its citizens from larger threats from foreign armies - something that is beyond the capabilities of an individual citizen. This doesn't remove the individual's right and duty to defend himself from individuals.
1.2.1.4. Pro: The protection of its citizens is the primary reason for states and government to exist in much of political philosophy.
1.2.1.4.1. Pro: For [John Locke](https://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/politics/locke/ch09.htm), individuals leave behind the state of nature and freedom to form political communities "for the mutual preservation of their lives, liberties and estates".
1.2.1.4.2. Pro: For [Thomas Hobbes](https://ebooks.adelaide.edu.au/h/hobbes/thomas/h68l/introduction.html), the government exists for the "protection and defence" of its citizens; and once this purpose is not fulfilled anymore, they have the right to [overthrow it](https://ebooks.adelaide.edu.au/h/hobbes/thomas/h68l/chapter21.html).
1.2.2. Con: Safety is primarily the responsibility of the citizen. We as citizens delegate a part of that responsibility to the government, but does not mean that the citizen has no responsibility for his or her own safety. The responsibility is shared between the government and the individual.
1.2.2.1. Pro: We give up our rights to government to execute justice on our attacker days after the attack. We should not approve of a vigilante mob pulling a shooter out of jail and hanging him publicly.
1.2.2.2. Pro: We do not give up our rights to government to prevent an attacker from attacking us in the first place. We retain the right to defend ourselves and other innocents when we are threatened with unwarranted harm.
1.2.3. Con: The government is not completely stepping out of the equation. Law enforcement would still respond to school shootings, even if teachers were armed.
1.2.4. Con: In the event of a crisis situation, every second counts. The immediacy of physical location, coupled with the teachers’ intimate knowledge of the school facility and students make them the ultimate first responders, especially those who are already qualified and willing to protect kids.
1.2.5. Con: Allowing teachers to protect themselves does not preclude the possibility of dealing with any underlying problems. Both can be done.
1.2.5.1. Pro: People have a tendency to put a "band-aid" on things, then forget about them, until they are a problem again. Arming teachers could be included in a larger initiative, but is not enough on it's own.
1.2.6. Pro: Trying to solve a complex problem in simple way by attempting to tackle only symptoms and not investigating the cause is both dangerous and ineffective.
1.2.6.1. Pro: Arming teachers might take away incentives to search for and enact other, possibly better solutions as everybody involved can say that measures against school shooting were taken.
1.2.6.2. Con: The problem \(the state of society in which school shootings are an acceptable action to anyone\) and its symptoms \(school shootings\) are two separate problems and must be addressed separately.
1.2.6.3. Con: Refusing to treat the symptoms while the underlying cause is being addressed is, quite literally, deadly. Yes, we should fix the underlying causes, but until this is done, we must protect our students and teachers by any means necessary, or we risk more symptoms... more mass shootings of unarmed, unprotected innocents.
1.2.6.3.1. Pro: Until the underlying cause is fixed, school shootings \(the "symptom"\) will continue. If we do not increase safety measures at our schools in the interim, more innocent students and teachers will die. Yes, we must fix the cause, but we ignore the symptoms at our children's peril.
1.2.6.4. Con: -> See 1.2.5.
1.2.7. Con: The police do not have a legal [duty to protect](http://www.nytimes.com/2005/06/28/politics/justices-rule-police-do-not-have-a-constitutional-duty-to-protect.html) civilians. The specific 2005 Supreme Court case that made this ruling is often cited as justification for civilians arming themselves for self protection.
1.2.7.1. Pro: This case reaffirms a citizens right to self-defense with guns. Teachers should be allowed to exercise this right in the classroom and on school grounds.
1.2.7.1.1. Pro: The Supreme Court ruled in [District of Columbia v. Heller](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/District_of_Columbia_v._Heller) that the right to bear arms is not dependent on service in a militia but justified by the right to self-defense.
1.2.7.2. Con: This logic leads into a vicious circle: if it isn't the purpose of the police to protect people, this encourages them to acquire more arms of their own, therefore making the police's work even harder.
1.2.7.3. Con: Just because the police does not have a constitutional duty to protect every individual at all times does not mean that the government does not have a general obligation to ensure the safety of citizens.
1.2.7.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.3.
1.2.7.3.2. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.4.
1.2.8. Con: Teachers are government employees.
1.2.8.1. Con: Even though teachers represent the government as providers of education, they are not hired with the expectation of ensuring student safety.
1.2.9. Con: Even if the government were directly responsible for the safety of its citizens, given the current conditions, it is impractical to think the government can keep citizens safe from violent crime. Doing so would take many times more tax resources then are available now.
1.2.10. Con: The idea is to have a person able to respond with lethal force on site so there is no delay removing the time for the killer to act. The purpose has nothing to do with washing their hands of responsibility.
1.2.11. Pro: Unlike law enforcement, teachers did not choose their career on the understanding that they are to put their life on the line. They became teachers to educate people. It is unfair to expect them to put themselves in mortal danger.
1.2.11.1. Pro: Even in the event of a perfectly successful stoppage of a school shooting. The teacher has now taken a life. Taking a life is a heavy burden that even soldiers who's career path strictly involve this type of burden, have trouble assimilating to society afterwards because of PTSD. Teachers would be same if not worse.
1.2.11.1.1. Con: PTSD is not limited to people who take lives.  Just witnessing or surviving a mass shooting may cause it, so disarming teachers does not prevent it.
1.2.11.2. Con: No proposals by the Trump administration or any other "pro gun" entity are advocating for all teachers to be required to arm themselves, and that additional uncompensated workload, etc. The proposals are for "allowing" teachers to arm themselves if they so choose, and for implementing a set of government guidelines and assistance for doing this responsibly.
1.2.11.3. Con: Teachers are not "put\[ting\] themselves in mortal danger". The shooter is putting them in mortal danger. And our current "Gun Free" schools actually exacerbate the problem by denying teachers the tools they need to successfully defend themselves and their students.
1.2.12. Con: As seen in parkland, relying on police to save everyone is a bad idea. The government has two possible choices which are both bad: either destroy the 2nd amendment which was made to fight over powerful governments, or try to throw the responsibility elsewhere.
1.2.13. Con: The government is not "transferring" responsibility to the teachers; the teachers have delegated their responsibility to the government.
1.2.13.1. Pro: The [Declaration of Independence](https://www.archives.gov/founding-docs/declaration-transcript) recognizes that men have an inalienable right to life.
1.2.13.2. Pro: In a free country, government is given its rights by the citizens. In order to delegate a right to government, the citizen must first possess that right. One cannot give away or share something that one does not possess. Because citizens delegate a portion of their self-defense to government \(i.e. police,military, etc.\) it follows that the citizen must necessarily possess the right of self-defense.
1.2.13.3. Pro: Because the right to life and self-defense is inalienable, delegation of that right to government cannot mean that the citizen gives up their own right to defend themselves or other innocent persons.
1.3. Con: Arming teachers treats a symptom without dealing with the underlying problems that lead to school shootings.
1.3.1. Con: One underlying problem is that shooters know that students and teachers are defenseless against an attack. Therefore, arming teachers allows teachers to defend themselves and students from a shooter, in-turn treating an underlying problem.
1.3.2. Con: -> See 1.2.5.
1.3.3. Con: Since the symptom is fatalities, this is a good symptom to address as soon as possible.
1.3.4. Con: Treating a symptom in no way prevents someone from also treating the underlying issue. If I break my leg the symptoms include not being able to walk, a cast, crutches or a wheelchair treat the symptom. This doesn't mean the I have given up on letting my leg heal or on avoiding behaviors that caused the problem.
1.3.5. Con: Underlying causes involving behavior change take years to have a discernible effect. The current political pressure is to address the symptoms in an expedient manner.
1.4. Con: Arming teachers undermines the purpose of schools: education.
1.4.1. Con: Students would quickly be accustomed to seeing teachers wear a holster. It would not be distracting or damaging to the quality of their education; on the contrary, it would reaffirm the position of authority of the instructor, and bring attention to the topic of "school shootings" and mental health to the children at a young age.
1.4.2. Con: Arming teachers would emphasize their role as figures of authority, thereby improving discipline in schools.
1.4.2.1. Con: The use of the presence of a firearm to promote everyday discipline in schools is likely to increase fear and tension in schools, and would degrade the learning environment.
1.4.2.2. Con: Firearms by themselves are not symbols of authority.
1.4.2.3. Con: Some teacher might use their firearms as a tool of intimidation in order to keep misbehaving students in line.
1.4.2.3.1. Con: A teacher who is willing to do those things shouldn't be a teacher. The problem in this scenario is the teacher, not the weapon.
1.4.2.3.1.1. Con: Many schools can't afford to be picky when it comes to hiring teachers, given that there is a [national shortage](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/answer-sheet/wp/2017/08/28/teacher-shortages-affecting-every-state-as-2017-18-school-year-begins/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.a83f3342cb72) of available teachers.
1.4.2.3.1.1.1. Con: Even if we can't afford to be picky about other qualifications, not hiring teachers who pose a danger to students should be a higher priority than resolving staff shortages.
1.4.2.3.1.1.1.1. Con: Just like it is often difficult to see which students may end up becoming a dangerous threat to the school, it can be difficult to be sure about which teachers may end up being dangerous.
1.4.2.3.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Mass murderers usually display violent or disturbing tendencies before they strike.
1.4.2.3.1.1.1.1.2. Con: It's easier to notice warning signs among your own employees than among members of the general public.
1.4.2.3.1.1.1.1.3. Con: Teachers in general have not displayed a significant trend towards mass murder.
1.4.2.3.1.1.1.2. Pro: Teachers who engage in unsatisfactory or dangerous behavior \(such as needlessly brandishing weapons\) can be fired.
1.4.2.3.2. Con: The use of deadly force is a last resort. The suggestion that a firearm would be used as an intimidation tool for typical behavior problems is outside of the legal scope of legitimate firearm usage.
1.4.2.4. Con: The idea of guns adding to the authority of teachers goes against the established rules that regulate how teachers can interact with students.
1.4.2.5. Con: Ideally, a teacher's gun should be concealed or secured and not even mentioned to students unless there is a deadly threat present. This would have no impact on discipline at all.
1.4.2.6. Pro: If children know the faculty could be armed, it likely would improve school discipline. People tend to be more law-abiding when around armed police officers. Arming teachers would have the same effect.
1.4.2.6.1. Con: Although any citizen can technically make an arrest, law enforcement officers are perceived to have a greater power of arrest, and are equipped with handcuffs and other equipment to facilitate arrests. It is the threat of arrest or citation that encourages better behavior when in the presence of police, not the presence of a weapon. Most citizens do not reasonably fear that they will be shot by police.
1.4.2.6.2. Con: People try to avoid getting caught by law enforcement officers, but they don't actually adhere to the law any more faithfully around them. This is hardly the sort of "discipline" that we should strive for in schools.
1.4.2.6.3. Con: Children are not rational actors and are more likely to behave unpredictably and without thought of consequences than adults.
1.4.2.6.3.1. Pro: Combine this with armed teachers and you have a potential tragedy in the making if a child decides to try and snatch a gun from a teacher on the spur of the moment in an argument.
1.4.3. Pro: This can make schools less like learning sanctuaries and more like fortresses from outside invaders. Shifting the focus to safety might lead to decisions that don't treat education as the highest goal of schools, therefore compromising their purpose.
1.4.3.1. Con: Learning sanctuaries and secure fortresses are not mutually exclusive. The safer a school is, the more likely that it can focus on education.
1.4.3.2. Con: The purpose of a school is not to allow teachers and students to be stabbed and shot. A students life should be much more important than their education.
1.4.4. Con: Armed teachers will have more confidence and training and will act more effectively under stress, not having a victim mentality.
1.4.5. Pro: This would take a teacher's attention away from teaching and instead towards defense.
1.4.5.1. Pro: Carrying a weapon in a concealed fashion - especially in combination with spare ammo - can be [uncomfortable and somewhat distracting](http://gunbelts.com/blog/best-concealed-carry-positions/), for example when sitting down.
1.4.5.1.1. Con: Guns aren't necessarily uncomfortable to wear.
1.4.5.1.2. Con: Even if wearing a gun is uncomfortable, the purpose of the gun is comforting. Properly wearing a firearm, and knowing that you are properly equipped and trained to protect yourself and your class is more "comfortable" than knowing you are unprotected against a shooter.
1.4.5.2. Con: Most school teachers and staff regularly practice fire drills, lockdown drills, and enacting other safety plans. Keeping students safe is already something they consider frequently.
1.4.5.3. Con: Teachers already have to be prepared for active shooter incidents; arming them only provides a greater capability to respond effectively.
1.4.5.4. Pro: Teachers would have to constantly be alert, both because they are expected to intervene if something happens and because they carry a gun that can cause accidents.
1.4.5.4.1. Pro: Studies show that individuals holding a gun in their hands are [more likely](http://www3.nd.edu/~jbrockm1/WittBrockmole_2012_JEPHPP.pdf) to identify other objects as guns and to react accordingly, even if the object in question isn't a gun.
1.4.5.4.1.1. Con: Because the study begins with the subject receiving a firearm as a part of the study, the assumption that others involved in the study will also be carrying firearms is justified. Because of this priming, the study does not necessarily indicate that someone who carries a firearm daily for personal protection is more likely to perceive that others are holding a firearm.
1.4.5.4.1.1.1. Pro: When someone carries a handgun every day for protection, they do not fixate on the gun all the time. They should be aware of it... you don't want to forget it's there to the point that you could lose it or have it removed and not notice it; but neither is it the primary thought on your brain.
1.4.5.4.1.2. Con: The study was conducted with people holdings a gun in their hands. Teachers would carry their weapons concealed; the results might therefore not apply to them.
1.4.5.4.2. Con: Teachers already have to be alert for violence, they just aren't allowed to have the tools necessary to deal with violence.
1.4.5.4.3. Con: Most, if not all, schools already have intercoms or other alert systems capable of notifying all teachers that an incident is in progress. This doesn't completely remove the need for individual awareness, but ensures that once school officials become aware of the threat, all personnel who are armed can quickly be notified so that they can take appropriate action.
1.4.6. Pro: Armed teachers might contribute to a climate of anxiety among students that would make it difficult or even impossible for them to learn.
1.4.6.1. Con: Drug Abuse Resistance Education \(D.A.R.E.\) classes are already taught by armed police officers without causing debilitating mental states among students.
1.4.6.2. Pro: Children might attend school afraid in the knowledge there is an accessible gun in school to a teacher that could one day decide to use it for harm instead of good.
1.4.6.2.1. Con: Many children will feel safer knowing there is someone prepared to defend them on site as opposed to knowing if something happens they are on their own with no lethal response available until police arrive.
1.4.6.2.2. Con: About [four-in-ten](http://www.pewsocialtrends.org/2017/06/22/the-demographics-of-gun-ownership/) adults report that there is a gun in their household, with three-in-ten saying they personally own a gun. There are accessible guns all over the US and somehow kids cope.
1.4.6.2.2.1. Con: Being comfortable with guns in school is not comparable to being comfortable with guns in your home.
1.4.6.2.2.1.1. Con: This counterpoint attempts to shift the argument from a neighborhood to a home. The point was, one in four homes have a gun. Assume that every fourth house on your street has a gun. They are not all operated by people you trust or even like. Nonetheless, kids walk past those homes all the time and possibly visit those homes regularly. Being comfortable with that fact is very comparable to being comfortable with a gun in one out of four classrooms.
1.4.6.2.2.1.1.1. Con: The people in a person's neighborhood are not assumed to have authority - including disciplinary authority - over the children who walk past their homes, nor are they in regular contact with those children eight hours a day, five days a week. This is not an apt comparison.
1.4.6.2.2.1.2. Pro: Guns in the home are owned and operated by their parents, who children know they can trust \(generally\).
1.4.6.2.2.1.3. Pro: Guns in school are owned and operated by the faculty, who students don't exactly trust as much as their parents \(generally\).
1.4.6.2.2.1.4. Pro: Students are less likely to be shot by a bully with their home gun, than they are to be shot with a school gun.
1.4.6.3. Con: Students do not have to be made aware of which teachers are armed.
1.4.6.3.1. Con: Not knowing who is armed might make students even more anxious.
1.4.6.3.1.1. Con: Students already don't know who is armed, [but some of their classmates are.](https://nces.ed.gov/programs/crimeindicators/ind_14.asp) If having unknown armed people in the area is such a cause for anxiety, then students are already dealing with that.
1.4.6.3.1.1.1. Pro: If schools were actually gun-free zones, then school shootings would be impossible.
1.4.6.4. Con: Guns are already present in many schools, carried by trained Resource Officers, with no apparent increase in student anxiety.
1.4.6.5. Con: Students may actually feel more secure in the knowledge that more people in the school are trained, equipped, and standing ready to defend them.
1.4.7. Con: Self defense weapons serve a useful purpose; deterring attacks and potentially stopping attacks. The presence of self defense weapons do not, by their nature undermine any other purpose.
1.4.7.1. Con: Turning teachers into an effective means of defense does undermine the purpose of education. It requires teachers to devote time and effort to training - time and effort they cannot use on educational purposes.
1.4.7.1.1. Con: Teachers have interests outside of their profession as do most other people. Those who have the interest to put in their time and money to train and carry should be allowed to do so.
1.4.7.1.2. Con: In order to transform an unarmed teacher into a more effective defense against an attacker the teacher could be armed. Even the mere sight of a weapon could discourage an attacker even if the victim had no idea how to use it.
1.4.7.1.3. Con: -> See 1.1.7.1.1.2.
1.4.7.2. Con: "Self defense weapon" is self-contradictory. Body armor and shields are for self-defense. Weapons are "[used to injure, defeat, or destroy](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/weapon)".
1.4.7.2.1. Con: If a weapon is used to defeat an attacker then that is a weapon used in defense. "Defensive weapons" is a reasonable, widely understood term.
1.4.7.2.1.1. Pro: Martial Arts is often considered the art of self-defense. It renders potentially dangerous people incapable of inflicting harm, just like weapons do.
1.4.8. Pro: Arming teachers, even on a voluntary basis, makes the job less attractive and will dissuade qualified individuals to pursue other careers.
1.4.8.1. Pro: Potential teachers may worry about expectations and pressure from other teachers, officials and parents about carrying a weapon. Teachers who refuse to do so might be perceived as not fully dedicated to the job and the safety of students.
1.4.8.1.1. Con: There is no reason parents, or even other teachers, need to be aware of whether a particular teacher is armed.
1.4.8.2. Pro: Potential teachers may feel uncomfortable about the prospect of working in an environment in which colleagues are carrying guns at all times.
1.4.8.2.1. Con: American teachers already live in a society in which many people carry guns. Armed teachers would therefore not add anything unusual.
1.4.8.2.2. Con: Prospective teachers wouldn't have to worry about working in an environment with visible guns. Teachers will likely not know which other teachers, if any, are carrying at any given time as this would be voluntary and take place in a concealed manner.
1.4.8.3. Con: Attacks on schools may have dissuaded some people from working as teachers. If schools take measures to increase security, it may encourage more people to serve as teachers.
1.4.9. Con: The threat of being killed undermines education more than anything else. Arming teachers lowers this threat and is therefore beneficial for education.
1.4.10. Con: There would be some time required for the initial training, perhaps 60 hours. Maintenance of skills might require 2 hours per month. Day to day activities attending to the weapon would be less then 5 minutes. After the initial training, impact to teaching should be all but non-existent.
1.5. Con: The presence of guns in schools contributes to the normalisation of gun presence in society.
1.5.1. Pro: If some teachers carry guns, this would socialize students into the idea that guns are a necessary fact of life, even in supposedly peaceful and safe environments.
1.5.1.1. Pro: The presence of guns creates an "ecology of violence" through which all social relations are interpreted and beliefs about the danger of everyday life become internalized \([Wilkinson/Fagan, p. 86](https://scholarship.law.duke.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=4312&context=lcp)\).
1.5.1.1.1. Con: The cited source describes the effects on adolescents who either carry guns or have guns available to them, not the effects on adolescents who are near adults carrying guns.
1.5.1.2. Con: Guns are indeed a necessary fact of life.

Given the number of known weapons in the United States, firearms are not going away. Even if they were completely banned, it will be impossible to completely remove them from society.
1.5.1.3. Con: In an environment that is only "supposedly" peaceful and safe, it is logical to have some sort of protection against those who would make it otherwise.
1.5.2. Con: If you go by statistics, school is safe. Pretty much everywhere is safe. If you ignore statistics, paying attention to the news media instead, school is already supposedly unsafe. Going by the media, in a country where criminals are already in possession of several million guns, gun normalization to law abiding citizens is a good thing.
1.5.3. Con: Normalizing and demystifying guns in American society is positive. Together with improving firearm safety and education, this would make them less of threat.
1.5.3.1. Con: Places where guns are normal and that emphasize firearm safety, such as the military or law enforcement, still have a significant number of casualties due to mishandling, "play" gone wrong, and shootings.
1.5.3.1.1. Con: -> See 1.1.12.2.1.1.1.
1.5.3.2. Con: Normalizing the presence of guns promotes the idea of "[rugged individualism](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2017/oct/06/americans-guns-nra-las-vegas-shooting)": it implies that individuals themselves are responsible for their safety and that safeguards financed and regulated by the larger community of Americans, such as law enforcement, are not sufficient. This undermines trust in the community and cooperative solutions.
1.5.3.2.1. Con: Individuals are, in fact, responsible for their safety, and this was true long before the United States existed to finance and regulate such community solutions.
1.5.3.2.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.2.
1.5.4. Con: A desire to normalize the presence of guns and the safety of citizens is the basis of the Second Amendment of the US Constitution, so such normalization is not necessarily a bad thing.
1.5.4.1. Pro: Guns are supposed to be normal in a free society. Founding father, [Richard Henry Lee](https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Richard_Henry_Lee) wrote the militia includes; "all men capable of bearing arms ... it is essential that the whole body of the people always possess arms, and be taught alike, especially when young, how to use them.".
1.5.5. Pro: In a society where the institutions designed to protect citizens can be relied upon, only trained officers should be carrying guns. If these institutions can't be relied upon, the primary objective should be to make them sufficiently reliable.
1.5.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.
1.5.5.2. Con: In a perfect world there would be no need for anyone being armed. Yet reality is more dangerous than that and being armed is safer than being unarmed when push comes to shove.
1.5.5.3. Con: If the only persons in a society with guns are members of "unreliable institutions", then it becomes very near to impossible for an unarmed populace to "make them sufficiently reliable.".
1.5.5.4. Con: -> See 1.2.7.
1.5.5.5. Con: This imposes unrealistic expectations on police officers. It is impossible for them to be everywhere that someone needs help or protection.
1.5.5.6. Con: This assumes that all police officers and other armed "public servants" are always moral and ethical. History has demonstrated the folly of believing this is always true.
1.5.5.6.1. Pro: During the decade up to 2015, [more than 50 police officers](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-nation/wp/2015/04/12/police-officers-charged-in-fatal-shootings-while-on-duty-54-cases-in-the-past-decade/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.c3bf3057d971) were charged after fatally shooting someone. The victims were oftentimes unarmed or shot in the back.
1.5.5.6.2. Pro: According to a 2000 study by the Department of Justice, over 60% of officers state that fellow officers do not always report abuses of power by their colleagues; over half state that it is usual to ignore the improper behavior of colleagues; and 84% state that colleagues at times or often use more force than necessary during arrests \([DOJ, p. 3, 5](https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/181312.pdf)\).
1.6. Con: Many of those who would be affected by this idea oppose it.
1.6.1. Con: Whether those affected by an idea support or reject it has no bearing on the validity of the argument.
1.6.2. Pro: Almost [three our of four](http://news.gallup.com/poll/229808/teachers-oppose-carrying-guns-schools.aspx) teachers oppose the idea of certain teachers carrying arms at work.
1.6.2.1. Pro: In addition, [eight out of ten](http://news.gallup.com/poll/229808/teachers-oppose-carrying-guns-schools.aspx) teachers would not want to carry a gun in schools, even after receiving special training.
1.6.2.2. Con: Nobody is arguing that all teachers should be armed or that teachers who don't want to be armed will be armed against their will. Only teachers who want to be armed and who successfully complete training would be allowed to be armed.
1.6.2.2.1. Con: The people who want to have guns in school are probably the ones who shouldn't have them.
1.6.2.2.2. Con: Armed teachers \(and by extension the school district\) would be held liable for any injuries/collateral damage caused to students.
1.6.3. Pro: A [slight majority](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2018/02/23/in-2017-americans-narrowly-opposed-allowing-teachers-and-school-officials-to-carry-guns/) of parents oppose the idea that some teachers should carry guns.
1.6.4. Con: It is reasonable to think anyone effected by this that found themselves potential victims during an active shooting event would be glad to the maximum amount possible that there were someone there ready and armed to defend them, the same way they would feel relief knowing police had arrived.
1.6.4.1. Con: Many [students](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation-now/2018/02/15/were-children-you-guys-adults-shooting-survivor-17-calls-out-lawmakers/341002002/) at the recent shooting in Florida have called for more active gun control and regulation which appears antithetical to arming teachers.
1.6.5. Con: Tools and methods for self protection should be a personal decision. While many oppose guns in schools, that doesn't necessarily mean their views must be forced on those who fear for their own safety. Everyone should have the freedom to decide for themselves because everyone is responsible for defending themselves.
1.6.5.1. Con: Any action which has impact on others within society should be subject to the effect it has on all - this is why smoking in public places isn't allowed. If tobacco is dangerous enough to warrant preventing people smoking then weapons intended for killing should definitely not be encouraged.
1.6.5.1.1. Con: Second hand smoke isn't comparable to gun ownership. Society regulates second hand smoke just like any other pollutant because it harms people. Putting smoke in the air harms people. An individual carrying a gun doesn't harm anyone. They have the potential to harm but they until actually harm somebody, society has no right to confiscate their gun. Police don't confiscate cigarettes before they are lit.
1.6.5.1.1.1. Con: That is incorrect or heroin wouldn’t be illegal. Heroin isn't harmful for anyone until used incorrectly by someone, same as a gun.
1.6.5.1.2. Con: Killing should not be encouraged. Weapons for self defense should be encouraged.
1.6.5.2. Pro: Teachers, like all other citizens, have a right to self protection. They should not be required to forfeit that right while teaching inside a school. They should have additional requirements if they want to exercise that right.
1.6.5.2.1. Con: It is by no means obvious that teachers have a right to defend themselves with guns just because they have a right to defend themselves.
1.6.5.2.1.1. Con: Given that attacks with guns are a realistic concern for teachers, it is unrealistic to say that they have a right to defend themselves unless they have the right to defend themselves with a like amount of force. The right to defend yourself against a shooter with your bare hands is not a right to defend yourself at all.
1.6.5.3. Con: This implies that someones fear should override another persons safety within society and that it is more important to mollify someone by giving them a gun than it is to allow the people around them to remain safe because they don't have one.
1.6.5.3.1. Con: Fear of other citizens does not grant someone the right to take away significant rights \(in this case the right to effective self-defence\) without cause.
1.6.5.3.1.1. Pro: Mollifying those that are afraid of guns by taking them away from others is not better than allowing those people and the people around them to remain safe and/or armed.
1.6.6. Con: Many of those who would be affected by this idea support it.
1.6.6.1. Pro: Many parents would prefer teachers have access to firearms to defend against a school shooter, to merely waiting for police to defeat the shooter.
1.6.6.2. Pro: Many students hiding from an active shooter would prefer their teacher have the ability to shoot back rather than wait for the shooter to select them for death.
1.6.6.3. Pro: Many teachers would prefer having some way to defend themselves and their students, to having merely a door and chance.
1.7. Pro: People should be free to carry guns and teachers shouldn't be an exception to this.
1.7.1. Con: -> See 1.5.5.
1.7.2. Con: This creates a slippery slope as students would also want to or even should be armed.
1.7.2.1. Con: It's not such a slippery slope. There are obvious differences between arming teachers and students, and it would be a significant leap from one to the other.
1.7.2.1.1. Pro: Most teachers are able to legally carry handguns outside of school grounds. Juveniles are not normally allowed to legally carry handguns.
1.7.2.2. Con: Kids should not always get what they want.
1.7.2.3. Con: The teachers who would be selected to be armed would be evaluated to be appropriate for that function and legally able to be armed. Children are unlikely to pass the evaluation and certainly would not be legal to arm.
1.7.2.4. Con: Guns don't necessarily make people safer, it's a question of who has the guns. Children usually lack both the judgment and the life experience to handle the responsibility of being armed. The fact that one group should not be armed has zero bearing on the other.
1.7.2.4.1. Pro: Responsible and well-trained adults who are armed and prepared to do violence do not pose the same threat that armed children would, and are more likely to be able to address a threat than children would be.
1.7.3. Con: People may be mislead that they'd be competent enough with a gun during an emotionally stressful situation, when many would not be. These kinds of assumption can be harmful as many people act erratically during emotionally stressful situations.
1.7.4. Pro: -> See 1.4.7.
1.7.5. Pro: The fact that weapons of defense are a net increase in safety is clearly evident by security experts posting armed guards whenever attempting to increase security. There are armed guards at banks, airports, malls, the White House and even schools.
1.7.5.1. Con: Teachers are not security or weapons specialists.
1.7.5.1.1. Pro: Police are trained to view members of the public as potential threats, whom they might, at any moment, have to kill. Placing teachers in that state of mind with respect to students would be potentially dangerous and would likely detract from teachers' ability to teach.
1.7.5.1.1.1. Con: Police view members of the public that they interact with under suspicion of committing a crime as potential threats, not every single person they speak to in every situation.
1.7.5.1.2. Con: Teachers can be weapons experts. People can be knowledgeable in more than one field.
1.7.5.2. Con: Even the opinions of experts should be received critically, especially regarding guns and shootings.
1.7.5.2.1. Pro: Even expert opinions suffer from a lack of research into guns, shootings and how to prevent them in the US.
1.7.5.2.1.1. Pro: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention \(CDC\), the institutes dedicated to public health, [have been prevented](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2017/10/04/gun-violence-research-has-been-shut-down-for-20-years/?utm_term=.9c0c37ddc96c) from doing or funding research on guns and shootings for decades.
1.7.5.2.1.1.1. Pro: As of 2012, there were [barely any](http://www.slate.com/articles/health_and_science/science/2012/12/gun_violence_research_nra_and_congress_blocked_gun_control_studies_at_cdc.html) private organizations available that compensate for this by providing funding for gun-related research.
1.7.5.2.1.2. Pro: Due to a [lack of funding](https://theconversation.com/why-is-there-so-little-research-on-guns-in-the-us-6-questions-answered-92163), very few researchers dedicate themselves to work on guns and shooting. The research that gets done is often based on small, not fully representative samples.
1.7.5.2.2. Con: Expert opinions are more likely to be accurate than lay opinions and wishful thinking are.
1.7.5.3. Con: The USA has the highest rate of gun ownership in the world \([101.5 guns per 100 people](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_firearm-related_death_rate#cite_note-78)\). If guns provided a deterrence, then the USA should have one of the lowest rates of violent gun crime, when in fact it has [the highest](https://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2017/10/06/555861898/gun-violence-how-the-u-s-compares-to-other-countries) of all developed countries and one of the highest in the world.
1.7.5.3.1. Con: The claim is misleading: the second source does not reflect the rate of violent gun crime, but violent gun deaths. This number includes non-crime statistics \(accidents, etc.\) and self-inflicted injury \(suicides\). For a comparison of firearm-related homicides, click [here](https://ijr.com/2016/01/510415-10-charts-that-put-obamas-gun-violence-town-hall-in-perspective/). Actually, in 2011, only about [8500 deaths](https://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2011/jan/10/gun-crime-us-state) were attributable to gun crime in the United States.
1.7.5.3.2. Con: A person with a gun, would most likely rather attack an unarmed person than somebody who is armed. Clearly the addition of a gun would deter a potential attack regardless of what might be inferred in any national statistics.
1.7.5.3.2.1. Con: An armed individual who is determined to commit to a shooting is likely to target the armed individuals first to minimize the risk of being stopped by an armed person. This is one reason why the addition of a gun won't deter an attack.
1.7.5.3.2.2. Con: Even if it's possible that some might be deterred by the presence of armed individuals, some armed shooters who intends to shoot other people may not consider that there are other individuals who might be armed and would therefore not be deterred by it.
1.7.6. Pro: Individual civilians cannot count on police to provide protection.
1.7.6.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.7.
1.7.6.2. Con: The point of funding a police force is to provide expert protection through trained and dedicated individuals. Let's take steps to increase their effectiveness rather than undermine their mission.
1.7.7. Pro: -> See 1.6.5.2.
1.7.8. Con: If more people being armed means that more people are safe, this implies that children should be armed, too. That is clearly not a good idea and shows the absurdity of this logic.
1.7.9. Con: Societies with more weapons tend to use them more often. When a weapon is available it is always considered as a response - when it isn't that isn't an option. The more people who are armed the more often accidental discharges and fire-fights hitting bystanders will happen.
1.7.9.1. Con: The same logic applies to vehicles. "Accidentall discharge" is like accidentally running a red light or a stop sign. The cause of death is human negligence and absent mindedness. Limiting the amount of vehicles and guns is not addressing the problem.
1.7.9.1.1. Pro: More people die from automobile wrecks than from guns. Yet those deaths seem to be justifiable because you feel you have a strong need for a vehicle.
1.7.9.2. Pro: The United States has by far the [highest number](https://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2017/10/06/555861898/gun-violence-how-the-u-s-compares-to-other-countries) of violent gun deaths of any industrialized nation.
1.7.10. Pro: -> See 1.6.5.
1.7.11. Pro: The number one cited reason for people keeping a gun in their home is [for protection](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/06/22/key-takeaways-on-americans-views-of-guns-and-gun-ownership/).
1.8. Pro: Armed teachers can ensure that students can safely evacuate or hide, even without actively seeking out a shooter.
1.8.1. Pro: School shooters [avoid conflict](http://www.politifact.com/florida/statements/2017/feb/21/richard-corcoran/do-most-mass-shootings-happen-gun-free-zones/) as their goal is a [power trip](https://www.apa.org/news/press/releases/2016/08/media-contagion-effect.pdf), inflicting as much harm as possible with as little resistance as possible. Armed teachers provide this resistance.
1.8.2. Con: Taking preparations, holding drills and investing in infrastructure \(such as reinforced doors\) could also achieve this.
1.8.2.1. Pro: An example are the [lockdown procedures](http://www.edu.gov.on.ca/eng/policyfunding/memos/june2009/LockdownGuidelinesEn.pdf) for schools implemented in Ontario. They ensure, for example, that the police has access to floor plans of schools.
1.8.2.1.1. Con: The police do not usually need a floor plan for the initial response to a mass shooter. There isn't time to review it before they make entry.
1.8.2.1.1.1. Pro: Active shooter response occurs very urgently, and there isn't time to study a floor plan before the police make entry.
1.8.2.1.1.2. Pro: The room numbering scheme isn't particularly useful information.  The police are more likely to communicate with each other using terms that they already understand, such as describing the location of a room or using cardinal directions.  the police do not have time to memorize the room numbers before they go in.
1.8.2.1.1.3. Pro: Individual schools and buildings may have unique floor plans, but they are laid out in predictable ways, with hallways and stairwells serving as arteries to access individual rooms and areas of the building.  The police do not need a map in order to use this information to locate and trap the shooter.
1.8.2.1.1.4. Pro: The police are unlikely to question which room number or specific map location they should be going for, as this information will become stale too quickly to be used. Instead, they will want to know what general area the shooter was last seen in \(which can be described without a floorplan\), and they will aggress towards the sound of gunfire.
1.8.2.1.2. Pro: The availability of floor plans allows police forces [to familiarize](http://krcgtv.com/news/local/school-floor-plans-help-police-with-active-shooter-preparations) themselves with the general layout of buildings and details, for example how rooms are numbered. Where floor plans were not available in the past, this has been cited as an issue that the police faced when intervening \([PERF, p. 25](http://www.policeforum.org/assets/docs/Critical_Issues_Series/the%20police%20response%20to%20active%20shooter%20incidents%202014.pdf)\).
1.8.2.1.2.1. Con: The general layout of most buildings \(including schools\) is fairly intuitive, and the numbering scheme is almost entirely irrelevant to an active shooter response.
1.8.2.1.3. Con: Even if the police have floor plans, an armed teacher will very likely still encounter the shooter before the police do.
1.8.2.2. Con: Arming teachers would be more effective than drills and changes to school infrastructure.
1.8.2.2.1. Pro: If a group of students evacuating the school encounters the shooter, then it would be better to have those students accompanied by an armed teacher than by an unarmed one.
1.8.2.2.1.1. Pro: If a teacher is armed, then that teacher and any nearby students stand a better chance of surviving an encounter with a shooter.
1.8.2.2.2. Pro: If a group of students and a teacher are hiding in a room that the shooter gains access to, it would be better if the teacher was armed than unarmed.
1.8.2.2.2.1. Pro: -> See 1.8.2.2.1.1.
1.8.2.3. Con: While it's true that lockdown training does not require firearms, it also doesn't preclude the use of firearms. Therefore such a claim does not serve to refute that a gun could also aid in self defense.
1.8.2.4. Con: Lockdown training is already common in US schools. It's a good idea as part of a comprehensive response to shooters, but it isn't enough on its own.
1.8.3. Con: A loaded gun is presumably on the teacher at all times. Frightened, angry or unwise students may take the gun away from the teacher, even in a non-crisis situation.
1.8.3.1. Con: A student attacking a potentially-armed teacher seems highly unlikely.
1.8.3.1.1. Pro: If the student is already armed, then they don't need to take the teacher's weapon--they would use their own. In this case, it would be better for the teacher and the innocent students if the teacher were armed.
1.8.3.1.2. Pro: If both the student and the teacher are unarmed, then the situation is no worse than the current scenario.
1.8.3.1.3. Pro: If the teacher is armed and the student is unarmed, then the student is taking a huge risk. While it is possible that such an attack could happen, possibility does not imply a high probability of such an attack; nor does it address the likelihood of the student successfully wresting the weapon from the teacher.
1.8.3.2. Con: Students often get chances to interact with police officers in school and in real life but generally do not try to take their guns or attack the officers.
1.8.3.3. Pro: Schools are tense places and teachers are already faced with having to diffuse arguments and fights daily. This is not a good place for a gun to be stored. In a crisis a teacher needs to mind all the children and assure they are silent and sheltered in place or moving as the situation requires. That is already a very tall order.
1.8.3.3.1. Con: These pressures are exacerbated by the absence of weapons and the prospect of having to fight off a potential attacker without them.
1.9. Con: There is currently an acceptable level of security in public schools compared to the current level of attacks. No change in policy \(regarding armed teachers\) is required at this time.
1.9.1. Con: Even if this is the case, we are looking at a [worrying trend](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2018/national/mass-shootings-in-america/?utm_term=.787653e1969d): the frequency and quality of mass shootings is increasing, with some of the most deadly ones occurring in recent years.
1.9.2. Con: The number of students being killed in schools in the United States far exceeds the acceptable level. Compared to many other countries, the United States is dramatically less safe.
1.9.2.1. Con: The parent claim is referencing an acceptable level of security, not an acceptable amount of deaths.
1.9.2.1.1. Con: The current level of security results in the current amount of deaths. Therefore, if the current amount of security is acceptable, the current amount of deaths must also be.
1.9.3. Pro: About [2000 children](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motor_vehicle_fatality_rate_in_U.S._by_year) die in car accidents annually. Deaths in school shootings are an [order of magnitude](https://www.axios.com/122-killed-in-mass-school-shootings-since-columbine-1518729655-91efddc3-adcd-4991-bd5c-59938db7bc2f.html) less than cars. Since there is no great public outcry for improving automotive safety for children, this supports the premise that the current level of school safety is acceptable.
1.9.3.1. Con: There may not be a public outcry for improving automotive safety for children, but that does not mean there is not a need to improve automotive safety.
1.9.3.2. Con: Other factors could be more responsible for auto-related deaths of children, e.g. drunk driving and distracted driving. These do have ongoing, national campaigns to address them as well as relatively new legislation. Thus, the non-existence of public outcry for improving automotive safety for children does not indicate that we view the current level of school safety as acceptable.
1.9.3.3. Con: There is a limit to how effective automotive safety can be for children. Once a car is going 80mph, a crash will likely be fatal and no amount of safeguards can guarantee the survival of passengers. While it appears we are near enough to this limit as evidenced by the lack of outcry, it does not appear that we are near such a limit in relation to school safety.
1.10. Con: Armed teachers would lead to a net decrease in school safety.
1.10.1. Pro: Arming teachers is likely to be counterproductive because more guns increases the [likelihood](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/11/06/opinion/how-to-reduce-shootings.html) of the issues that schools are trying to prevent: people shooting each other with guns in schools.
1.10.1.1. Con: Decreasing the victimization of innocent students and school staff is more important than decreasing violence in general.
1.10.1.2. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.4.1.
1.10.1.3. Pro: Trying to defend oneself with a gun during an armed assault is more likely to get a person shot than without carrying a gun \(by almost [5.5 times](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2759797/)\).
1.10.1.4. Pro: Armed citizens are more likely to behave aggressive and dangerous, as was shown for [road rage behavior](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0001457505002162).
1.10.2. Pro: -> See 1.1.7.
1.10.3. Pro: There’s plenty of drama in schools without guns. Throwing guns into the mix is going to lead to incidents with someone getting shot.
1.10.3.1. Con: We as a society can expect better self control from teachers than to inappropriately brandish firearms at school.
1.10.3.1.1. Pro: Teachers are employed to supervise and educate children, which necessitates hiring responsible and qualified applicants. The selection process should exclude people who would carelessly brandish firearms.
1.10.3.1.2. Con: -> See 1.4.2.3.1.1.
1.10.3.2. Con: That will only happen once. If someone brandishes a gun unlawfully they won't be teaching anymore and are going to be charged. That is already illegal.
1.10.3.2.1. Con: Many things are illegal and yet still re-occur, for example school shootings.
1.10.3.3. Pro: An armed teacher could use a weapon to harass, intimidate, rape or murder a student.
1.10.3.3.1. Con: A teacher who would break those laws would likely also break current laws against bringing a firearm to school.
1.10.3.3.2. Con: -> See 1.4.2.3.1.
1.10.3.3.3. Con: A teacher could do any of these acts without a weapon. Either way, they are all illegal.
1.10.3.4. Pro: When kids act up or a fight breaks out, some teacher is going to decide to stop it by brandishing their gun and things will escalate.
1.10.4. Pro: By having guns in schools it's possible there could be gun theft, placing guns in the hands of delinquent students.
1.10.4.1. Pro: Even well meaning kids will do bad things because they are curious, don't know any better, think it is cool, etc.
1.10.5. Pro: Armed teachers will likely be targeted as the first victims by school shooters.
1.10.5.1. Pro: If armed teachers pose a threat to the life of a shooter and subsequently their ability to reach a high body county before being stopped, attempting to get rid of that threat is likely to be a priority for the shooter.
1.10.5.1.1. Con: The fact remains that active shooters typically seek out unarmed targets, not armed confrontations. Rationalizing reasons why they might hypothetically behave differently doesn't change the way that they actually behave.
1.10.5.2. Con: Active shooters historically target unarmed victims. They are interested in a high body count, not in a gun fight.
1.10.5.2.1. Con: -> See 1.10.5.1.
1.10.5.3. Con: If there are going to be any targets then it is better to have armed adults be the targets than unarmed children.
1.10.5.4. Pro: If the shooter is successful this would provide the shooter with access to an additional weapon.
1.10.5.4.1. Con: Suppose multiple teachers are armed and the attacker is lucky enough to disarm one of the teachers. Yes, the attacker now has an additional weapon but still faces more resistance. The remaining teachers have a better chance of survival if they are armed whether the attacker has one gun or two.
1.10.5.4.2. Con: Historically, the shooters don't quit because they run out of weapons or ammunition. They go in with plenty. Picking up a fallen teacher's weapon won't affect the outcome.
1.10.5.5. Con: History has shown that in these situations teachers already put themselves in harm's way to protect their students. Allowing a teacher to be armed only gives them the chance to be more than just another victim.
1.10.5.5.1. Pro: During the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in February 2018, football coach [Aaron Feis](https://edition.cnn.com/2018/02/15/us/football-coach-florida-school-shooting-trnd/index.html) and teacher [Scott Beigel](https://www.seventeen.com/life/a18197872/geography-teacher-died-florida-high-school-shooting/) sacrificed themselves trying to protect students.
1.10.5.5.2. Pro: During the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012, [four teachers](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/9746935/Teachers-sacrificed-themselves-to-save-their-pupils.html) sacrificed themselves in an effort to protect their students and died.
1.10.5.5.3. Pro: During a school shooting in the German city of Winnenden in 2009, [three teachers](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/germany/4974982/Germany-school-shooting-Teachers-sacrificed-themselves-to-save-pupils.html) engaged the shooter, shielded students and ultimately were killed.
1.10.5.6. Con: As teachers who carry guns would not wear uniforms or be otherwise recognizable as armed, it is unlikely that they would be targeted first.
1.10.5.6.1. Con: The minimum age difference between student and teacher is four years but the average age difference is much larger. In the overwhelming majority of cases shooters will have no difficulty identifying and targeting teachers based on age, should the shooter know in advance that teachers may be armed.
1.10.5.7. Con: -> See 1.10.5.4.1.
1.10.6. Pro: Storing weapons in schools is an escalation of force - it will encourage school shooters to bring more, deadlier weapons.
1.10.6.1. Pro: Forcing school attackers to bring more, deadlier weapons will deter attacks since it is more difficult to amass more, deadlier weapons.
1.10.6.1.1. Con: This would create a conflict escalation, which would probably have a net negative effect. Also, it is usually the tactics of the shooter that makes more of a difference, not the tool they use.
1.10.6.1.1.1. Con: It would be more difficult for attackers to mount a successful attack, therefore the net effect is fewer attacks which would be a positive outcome.
1.10.6.1.1.2. Con: This line of debate was premised on inadvertently encouraging "school shooters to bring more, deadlier weapons". Therefore we are assuming that it is weapons, not simply tactics, which make a difference. If we posit weapons don't make much of a difference then we should assume attackers won't bring more, deadlier weapons regardless of what we do.
1.10.6.2. Con: Having a weapon isn't an escalation of force, an action is. By this logic every police officer in America is escalating every situation by simply being armed.
1.10.6.2.1. Pro: The use of weapons in a fight that did not previously involve weapons is an escalation of force. Mere possession of a weapon is not the same as using a weapon.
1.10.6.2.2. Con: Eschewing escalation is among the reasons why some police forces along the globe implement unarmed police personnel.
1.10.6.2.2.1. Con: British police services employ specialized officers who carry guns. They are not an example of disarmament to avoid de-escalation, they are an example of a force that doesn't movement employ firearms because it doesn't normally need them.
1.10.6.2.2.2. Pro: The gun-free approach of police forces in countries like Britain and Iceland is [commonly](https://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/12/nyregion/us-police-leaders-visiting-scotland-get-lessons-on-avoiding-deadly-force.html) [linked](https://qz.com/727941/how-do-police-handle-violence-in-countries-where-officers-dont-carry-guns/) [to](http://harvardpolitics.com/online/lessons-inspector-clouseau-americas-police-can-learn-european-nations/) the idea that this allows situations to be resolved without the threat of escalating them.
1.10.6.2.3. Con: By this logic, replacing an unarmed guard with an armed police man, SWAT, soldier, tank, etc., would not be escalating any situation \(ergo, the cold war was just a friendly competition\).
1.10.6.2.3.1. Con: Replacing unarmed personnel with armed guards is only an escalation if no one else has yet escalated the conflict to that point. School shooters have already escalated this conflict to the point that it involves weapons.
1.10.6.2.4. Con: Having a weapon is something you can change, and have a choice over. You had to choose to have that gun on you. Or maybe you had to choose to follow orders, and have that gun on you. At no point do people have guns strapped to them against their will, you always have a choice. Even if that choice is to comply or be punished.
1.10.6.2.4.1. Con: Having a choice does not imply that one possible decision must always be an escalation.
1.10.6.3. Con: If they had the capacity to bring deadlier weapons, they would do so, regardless of how well the school is protected.
1.10.6.4. Pro: Armed teachers do nothing to deter the mentally ill from carrying out harmful and suicidal attacks, especially against those who have a death wish in the first place.
1.10.6.4.1. Con: The exact effectiveness of a deterrent is unknowable but there are many examples of people using weapons to stop an attack. Indeed, many people carry mace, tasers and guns because they believe that an armed victim might stop an attack whether the attacker is mentally ill or not.
1.10.6.4.2. Pro: The shooters are prepared to die when they start shooting, as evidenced by how many commit suicide before apprehension. The threat of death will not deter them.
1.10.6.4.2.1. Con: By this very statement, many mass shooters commit suicide when confronted, thus ending the threat. Law enforcement is trained to enter and engage the shooter as quickly as possible, and this is part of the reasoning. An armed teacher could be an even faster response.
1.10.6.4.2.1.1. Con: The reason for committing suicide is likely to avoid incarceration, something that law officers represent, but an armed teacher would not. An armed teacher would likely be seen as an opponent or target, since they don't have the training or protection \(Bullet resistant vest\) that officers have, so the shooter may decide to press on anyway.
1.10.6.4.2.1.1.1. Con: Shooters will also press on if the teachers are not armed. At least an armed teacher has a chance to deal with that, even if the shooter does not commit suicide.
1.10.6.4.2.2. Con: What might be a deterrent is the prospect of them being shot before they can do any damage - or, at least, damage on the scale that brings them national attention.
1.10.6.5. Con: School shooters have already escalated force. Storing weapons in school is not further escalation. When either side of a conflict has started using weapons, then the other side is not escalating force by also using weapons. Also, mere possession of weapons is not by itself a use of force, let alone an escalation of force.
1.10.7. Con: -> See 1.7.5.
1.10.8. Pro: Arming teachers may promote celebratory gunfire on various occasions, which can result in accidents.
1.10.8.1. Con: Police officers, security guards, and other people armed for protection do not typically engage in celebratory gunfire.
1.10.8.2. Con: The practice [is illegal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Celebratory_gunfire#Penalties) in most places. It is therefore hard to imagine that it would become a wide-spread practice.
1.10.9. Con: The current situation is that the killer is unopposed for minutes waiting for the police to arrive. Changing that to only a few seconds is a huge improvement of student safety.
1.10.10. Con: Texas has a school marshal program \(instituted in 2013\) in which some districts have staff members equipped with and trained in firearms. \(An estimated 20 districts are participating, the precise number/identity being unknown due to safety concerns.\) There are approximately 100 school marshals trained and armed in the state. There are no reports of a negative impact to [student safety](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/02/24/armed-teachers-texas-trump-362397).
1.10.10.1. Con: If keeping the districts secret was partially intended as a general deterrent for all districts, it is not working 100%. [Texas](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/02/24/armed-teachers-texas-trump-362397) has had [armed teachers](https://www.nbcdfw.com/news/local/Texas-Already-Arm-Qualified-Teachers-Despite-Opposition.html) since 2013. Since then, the state has experienced gun violence [incidents](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_school_shootings_in_the_United_States).
1.10.10.1.1. Con: The fact that a particular measure has not prevented all school shootings is not evidence the measure has failed to serve as a general deterrent. One might just as well say, "if background checks were intended as a general deterrent then they aren't working." Preventing all school shootings is not possible.
1.10.10.2. Con: The article specifically says that the districts with this policy keep are secret, thus making it difficult to evaluate if this policy has had an effect on their likelihood of experiencing gun violence: "It's not clear how many marshals there are because it is a secret force. The few districts that are thought to have authorized them typically won’t even say they have done so — so gunmen can’t target them.".
1.10.10.2.1. Con: The uncertainty could act as a deterrent as a criminal not knowing if a target is armed or not may make them wary of all targets.
1.10.10.3. Con: Importantly, "there's no research or concrete evidence to make the case," per the Politico article. Indeed, it's difficult to draw any conclusions based on a lack of incidents.
1.10.11. Pro: Arming teachers can easily result in teachers overreacting and misidentifying as well as attacking someone as a shooter, potentially causing harm to innocents.
1.10.11.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.5.4.1.
1.10.12. Pro: Armed teachers would be a new threat: they could be the ones who initiate a shooting.
1.10.12.1. Pro: According to a 2017 survey, six out of ten teachers feel stressed often or always \([AFT/BAT, p. 2](https://www.aft.org/sites/default/files/2017_eqwl_survey_web.pdf)\).
1.10.12.1.1. Con: Carrying a gun isn't necessarily all that stressful. Under normal conditions, the gun would not be needed and would not need to impact the teacher's routine in any way. Under circumstances where the gun is needed, other stressors will have more to the forefront.
1.10.12.1.2. Con: Police officers are also under stress, but they manage to handle being armed.
1.10.12.2. Pro: Teachers are much more likely than the average worker to consider their mental health as problematic \([AFT/BAT, p. 4](https://www.aft.org/sites/default/files/2017_eqwl_survey_web.pdf)\).
1.10.12.3. Pro: Teachers might be mentally ill themselves and thus initiate their own shootings \(with weapons they carry to protect themselves and the students\).
1.10.12.4. Con: Teachers could initiate a shooting regardless of the suggested policy.
1.10.12.5. Con: Teachers, who usually have passed a background check, are far more unlikely to initiate a school shooting than students or even strangers.
1.10.12.6. Pro: If a teacher experiences a burst of anger or might otherwise lose control, this momentary madness can potentially escalate into a shooting.
1.10.12.6.1. Con: Teachers are hired to supervise and educate children. The selection process should exclude people who are prone to "momentary madness."
1.10.12.6.1.1. Con: -> See 1.4.2.3.1.1.
1.10.12.6.2. Con: Following this logic, neither police officers nor soldiers should be armed as they are equally capable of causing great harm out of momentary anger.
1.10.12.7. Con: This argument commits the Just-In-Case \(Worse-Case Scenario\) Fallacy. More often we see violence in school coming from students and outsiders than we do from stressed teachers going on a rampage.
1.10.12.7.1. Con: We do not see violence from teachers as they are usually not allowed to bring weapons to work and would loose their job if they did.
1.10.12.7.1.1. Con: Weapons enable violence to be more effective, but they do not cause violence. If we do not see violence from teachers, it is because teachers are not prone to violence.
1.10.12.7.1.2. Con: If job stress can cause a teacher to become violent, it doesn't seem reasonable that the absence of a firearm would prevent job stress or violent behavior and possibly the use of some other available weapon. Yet seeing teachers becoming violent is not commonplace. Responsible firearms training also includes guidelines to know your limits and put away firearms under times of stress or emotion.
1.10.12.8. Pro: If teachers already and legally have a gun with them, they could shoot without premeditation.
1.10.12.8.1. Con: In that case, if somebody started shooting up a school, it would certainly be helpful if there were armed teachers around to stop them, or was the parent claim suggesting that all the armed people in the school suddenly decided to attack simultaneously?
1.10.13. Pro: -> See 1.1.12.2.1.1.
1.10.14. Pro: -> See 1.1.12.2.
1.10.15. Pro: The chances of a teacher killing an active shooter with a gun, are far less than the chances of a student being shot by that same gun in the meantime. [Studies](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/more-guns-do-not-stop-more-crimes-evidence-shows/) have shown that more [guns](https://www.livescience.com/39813-gun-ownership-increases-firearms-deaths.html) equal [more](https://thinkprogress.org/more-guns-mean-more-crime-37ae003e8bb5/) people being [shot](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/06/sunday-review/more-guns-more-killing.html) with guns, not less.
1.10.15.1. Con: While the odds of a teacher killing a shooter are very low, the odds of a gun accident are also [very low](http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-na-accidental-gun-deaths-20180101-story.html).
1.10.15.1.1. Con: [Accidental gun deaths](http://www.aftermath.com/content/accidental-shooting-deaths-statistics) was the 4th most common cause of accidental death in the US in 2013. According to the CDCP, which tracks all gun deaths in the U.S, there were [586](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/gun-accidents/) unintentional firearm deaths in 2014.
1.10.15.1.1.1. Con: The fact that gun accidents are a common form of accidental death does not mean that gun accidents are common. Accidental gun deaths are [very uncommon](http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-na-accidental-gun-deaths-20180101-story.html) \(489 out of 300M guns\) as are [accidental deaths](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/more-americans-are-dying-accidental-deaths/) in general \(136,000 out of 320M people\).
1.10.15.1.2. Con: While gun accidents are uncommon, the presence of armed teachers in an active shooter scenario would increase the likelihood of unintended deaths and injuries from stray fire.
1.10.15.1.2.1. Con: It's possible that increasing the number of guns present in a shootout may increase the likelihood of injuries from stray fire however mathematically, the possibility of injuries from stray fire would remain very low. A great increase in probability for an unlikely event does not create a highly probable event.
1.10.15.1.2.2. Con: Teachers would not be indiscriminately firing their guns during an active shooter event, but using them to defend themselves and their students if the shooter made it to wherever they were hiding. Given that this could shorten the duration of the incident, the chance of injuries from stray fire would decrease significantly.
1.10.16. Pro: Not all students can act appropriately because of special needs \(ex. Austism\) which could lead to them being incorrectly shot.
1.10.16.1. Pro: Someone who is autistic may feel additional stress during a school shooting if a teacher whom they normally trust has a gun. This might make an autistic student less likely to comply with a teachers directions, putting them at a greater risk of becoming a casualty during the shooting.
1.10.17. Con: Utah teachers have been armed for at least 10 years; "Utah state law allows private citizens, including teachers, to carry concealed firearms on the job with a special permit requiring prior gun-safety training and a background check.". The state has neither seen shootings nor an increase in gun safety issues since.
1.11. Con: Arming teachers exacerbates racial discrimination in American schools.
1.11.1. Pro: In a school system where students of colour receive more punitive discipline and suspensions/expulsions than their white counterparts, arming teachers would contribute to the fear and danger students of colour already [experience](https://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2016/09/when-school-feels-like-prison/499556/) at school.
1.11.1.1. Con: While students of colour might receive more discipline than white counterparts, this only demonstrates correlation, not causality. Race might not be a significant factor and does not support the assumption that armed teachers would add to student fear.
1.11.2. Pro: Male teachers of color may experience stronger racism and be perceived as a danger if they are armed. [Philando Castile](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/21/us/video-police-shooting-philando-castile-trial.html), a black male school cafeteria worker, was shot and killed by a policeman during a traffic stop when he informed the officer he had a concealed carry weapon.
1.11.2.1. Con: People of all races have been inappropriately shot by policemen of all races. Race might not be a significant factor and does not support the claim that male teachers of color might be perceived as a greater danger.
1.11.2.2. Con: Armed male teachers of color experiencing racism is symptomatic of a different problem. Dealing with racism and falsely perceived danger is different than dealing with the real dangers of violence in schools.
1.11.2.3. Con: Racism should be dealt with head-on. Preventing teachers from being able to protect students because of potential or perceived racism is unfair to both the teachers and the students.
1.11.3. Con: Being armed does not make someone any more or less racist than they already are.
1.11.3.1. Con: While it may not change how racist an individual is, being armed may empower a racist person to act more racist or at the very least appear more threatening when being racist towards someone.
1.11.3.1.1. Con: Racist teachers should be fired, instead of using them as a reason to prevent all teachers from being able to defend themselves and their students.
1.11.3.1.1.1. Con: A racist teacher that gets found out to be racist should certainly be fired but the harm that a racist teacher can cause before getting caught would be a lot worse if they are armed.
1.11.3.1.1.2. Pro: Most teachers are not overtly racist.
1.11.3.1.1.3. Pro: An armed teacher can save lives, which more than balances out the harm that an unlikely hypothetical armed racist teacher gone rogue might cause.
1.12. Con: Arming teachers has the potential to cause legal problems.
1.12.1. Con: Not arming teachers has the potential to lead to further mass murder at schools. The tragedy of even one more actual mass murder event outweighs a potential increase in legal issues.
1.12.2. Pro: Teachers not familiar with the legal intricacies might get into legal trouble for using a gun when this isn't allowed.
1.12.2.1. Con: The discussion specifically asserts as a given that teachers will be appropriately and adequately trained.
1.12.3. Pro: Arming teachers may lead to difficulties when prosecuting the shooter. Time and complications from having to determine the origin's bullet could complicate burden of proof.
1.12.3.1. Con: There would likely be little difference to how a defensive shooting in schools would be handled as compared to how it is currently handled outside of schools.
1.12.3.2. Con: Prosecuting the shooter already involves a massive effort and expensive forensic reconstruction. Armed teachers who were not suspects will have no effect on this.
1.12.3.3. Con: Prosecuting shooters would, in fact, become easier. Legislative complexity would be reduced by removing laws prohibiting legal firearms in schools and simply allowing current gun laws to apply there as well.
1.12.4. Pro: The law would need to be changed to protect teachers, for example through blanket immunities. Otherwise, expensive legal cases that cost the government for defending teachers in court might be the result.
1.12.4.1. Con: Such protection could be added to the statutes permitting teachers to be armed.
1.12.4.2. Con: Other than changing laws to allow teachers to carry guns, no specific legal protections would be needed. Legal defenses such as defense of a person or choice of evils are already in place, and would apply to actions a teacher took to deal with a school shooter.
1.12.4.3. Con: The cost of defending lawsuits or of creating qualified immunity for teachers is a small price to pay for saving lives.
1.12.4.4. Pro: Federal laws restricting guns within 1,000 feet of schools were adopted in the early [1990s](http://lawcenter.giffords.org/gun-laws/policy-areas/guns-in-public/guns-in-schools/). This means that the regulation would have to be withdrawn, amended or defined as exempt, creating cost.
1.12.4.4.1. Con: It is the sole job of Congress to write, review and vote on legislation. The members of Congress and their staff are payed anyway, so no additional costs would result from revising gun laws.
1.13. Pro: Armed teachers will deter potential shooters in schools.
1.13.1. Pro: The threat of being killed in the act of committing a shooting may deter shooters who are not planning to take their own life after committing the act
1.13.2. Pro: -> See 1.8.1.
1.13.3. Con: Armed teachers will have no effect outside of schools. Shooters will be undeterred in movie theaters, music concerts, public swimming pools, etc.
1.13.3.1. Pro: This makes the assumption that the teacher is not carrying while attending a movie, a concert, etc.  This is an unfounded assumption, as many who carry do so as often as legally possible.
1.13.4. Con: There is no reason to believe that potential mass shooters rationally calculate their odds.
1.13.4.1. Con: The majority of mass shootings take place in 'gun-free zones'. The shooters think ahead far enough to pick places where they alone are armed. The potential of armed teachers on school grounds could deter some shooters.
1.13.4.1.1. Con: There is little evidence that gun-free zones in and of themselves attract shootings. Of the 62 mass shootings over the last 30 years, [not a single case](https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2013/04/gun-free-zones-mass-shootings/) includes evidence that the killer chose to target a place because it banned guns.
1.13.4.1.1.1. Con: Of the [23 deadliest shootings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mass_shootings_in_the_United_States) in the U.S.  At least 7 were in places that do not allow concealed carry. They were Pulse Nightclub, Virginia Tech, Sandy Hook, Stoneman, Columbine, Fort Hood, WA Navy Yard, and Aurora. You could, debatably, include Umpqua, GMAC, Edmond, UofT and Las Vegas for a total of 12. While it's arguably true that a minority occur in gun-free zones, there's a clear affinity for shooters to choose soft targets. 3000 unarmed school children make a very soft target.
1.13.4.1.1.2. Con: The movie theater selected in Aurora, CO was not the largest, nor the closest to the killer's home. It was, however, the only theater near his home that banned concealed carry. While we can't get into his head, it seems likely that this is a case where the gun free zone attracted a killer.
1.13.4.1.1.3. Pro: At least in the case of school shootings, as opposed to mass shootings more generally, shooters generally have some emotional affinity for their target: They tend to attack a school at which they are a current or former student, and evidence left behind by shooters often indicates some intent to "punish" the student body, faculty, staff, society in general, etc. for perceived mistreatment, humiliation, etc.
1.13.4.2. Con: There is no reason to believe that potential mass shooters do not calculate their odds, either. It is not a trivial task to acquire firearms, ammunition, transportation, and to gain access to a school. There is no reason to assume they are incapable of calculating to increase the impact of their actions. Furthermore, it is a general-given that any school might have one or two armed "resource officers", not more, and possibly less.
1.13.5. Con: -> See 1.10.6.4.2.
1.13.6. Con: Armed police already present in schools where and when shootings occur [do not deter or stop](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/florida-school-shooting-sheriff-scott-israel-parkland-shooter-resign-deputy-scot-petersen-a8228796.html) shooters.
1.13.6.1. Con: It isn't at all possible to know how many shootings are deterred by the presence of armed response. The fact there are shootings where there are armed person now in no way proves other shootings are not deterred.
1.13.6.1.1. Con: It also doesn't prove that an armed person deterred any shooters. This is an example of argumentum ad ignorantiam, or an argument to ignorance. Just because it wasn't proven that an armed response won't deter an attack, doesn't mean it has been proven that an armed response would deter an attack.
1.13.6.1.1.1. Con: It's almost always an armed person that has deterred the most dangerous shooters from shooting another victim. Of [the top 23 most deadly shootings in the U.S.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mass_shootings_in_the_United_States) all but one of the attackers was apprehended, killed or committed suicide in the face of armed resistance. In only one case \(James Pough\) did the attacker appear to commit suicide simply because there were no other people to shoot. In every other case, armed civilians or police were on the scene.
1.13.6.2. Con: One cannot compare the deterrent effect of a single armed security professional in uniform with the one of multiple unknown gun concealing teachers on site.
1.13.7. Pro: It is rational to suggest that school shooters choose schools because of the large ratio of unarmed humans gathered in one location. Arming faculty will reduce this ratio, making schools a less attractive target.
1.13.7.1. Con: Making schools a less attractive target doesn't really solve the problem - it just moves the problem to another venue.
1.13.7.1.1. Con: While it may not solve the problem of mass shootings in general, it does solve the problem of school shootings.
1.13.7.2. Con: If shooters were looking for a large ratio of unarmed to armed humans then there would be other, better locations. Many schools have at least one armed officer.
1.13.7.3. Con: Most school shootings have been perpetrated by current students or past students. This would suggest that the venue was chosen based on emotional reasons rather than what is suggested. Otherwise more of such shootings would be at malls, concerts, office buildings, etc.
1.13.7.4. Pro: -> See 1.10.17.
1.13.8. Con: The best possible case is that armed teachers might reduce the total fatalities when they are able to either stop or slow the shooter, but it will not stop the attempts.
1.13.8.1. Con: It is not intuitively obvious that arming teachers will "not stop the attempts". It is unlikely to stop all attempts, but it is reasonable to assume that it could stop some attempts.
1.13.8.2. Con: Considering [most mass shootings](https://crimeresearch.org/2014/09/more-misleading-information-from-bloombergs-everytown-for-gun-safety-on-guns-analysis-of-recent-mass-shootings/) occur in 'gun-free zones' and schools are 'gun-free zones', it makes sense that removing that trait from schools would deter some shooters.
1.13.8.2.1. Pro: While most mass shootings do not occur in gun-free zones, most of the [deadliest mass shootings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mass_shootings_in_the_United_States) in schools have indeed occurred in gun-free schools.
1.13.8.3. Con: Reducing total fatalities of school shootings is a valid argument for arming teachers by itself.
1.13.8.4. Con: Arming teacher does not need to be the only step.
1.14. Con: Teachers are already overworked, and expecting them to take on additional training is unrealistic.
1.14.1. Pro: -> See 1.10.12.1.
1.14.2. Con: Many teachers are already gun owners and concealed carry permit holders, and simply allowing them to carry concealed at school places no additional burden on the school.
1.14.3. Con: Teachers who feel that they would be overwhelmed by carrying a firearm would not need to carry a firearm. Only teachers who feel up to the task and who accept the responsibility of being armed should carry weapons.
1.14.4. Pro: Many teachers currently describe their workload as [unmanageable](https://www.theguardian.com/teacher-network/datablog/2016/mar/22/60-hour-weeks-and-unrealistic-targets-teachers-working-lives-uncovered). Requiring hours of additional training adds undue burden to a profession that is already overburdened.
1.15. Con: There are better alternative measures against shootings.
1.15.1. Pro: One solution that schools can be less of a target is with virtual learning.
1.15.1.1. Con: This solution would involve greater and more complicated changes to the current school system than simply allowing teachers to be armed.
1.15.1.2. Con: This solution would seriously disadvantage poor students who would not have access to the same equipment that wealthier students would.
1.15.1.3. Con: People should not have to shut themselves into their homes and avoid any public gathering in order to prevent violence, especially when less extreme solutions exist \(such as arming teachers\).
1.15.1.4. Con: This would reduce students' opportunities for socialization.
1.15.2. Pro: Preventing the shooting from happening in the first place is always a better solution for society than having to stop a shooting in progress.
1.15.2.1. Con: While true, the truth of this claim is of no comfort to either a teacher or a student facing an active shooter while unarmed. Until society again reaches the point where school shootings are rare enough to be considered non-existent, we cannot abandon our teachers and students to mayhem.
1.15.3. Con: Almost every mass/school shooting is ended by a firearm in the hands of persons trained to intervene, or by the aggressor's suicide when faced with the same.
1.15.4. Pro: There are non-violent alternatives to stop shootings.
1.15.4.1. Con: Nonviolent methods of preventing violence are less reliable and less effective than countering violence with violence.
1.15.5. Pro: School marshals could be hired to serve and protect. Teachers are hired to teach.
1.15.5.1. Con: We already have school resource officers \(SRO's\), but budgetary constraints prevent hiring enough to equal the firepower of arming even 5% of the teachers.
1.15.6. Pro: Instead of arming teachers or hiring marshals, the state could train and deputize some volunteer school staff \(teachers, admins, coaches, custodians\) to serve as [undercover marshals](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/02/24/armed-teachers-texas-trump-362397).
1.15.6.1. Con: Non-uniformed personnel \(like undercover marshals or deputized school staff\) would make the situation much worse if they were searching for the shooter rather than taking shelter with students like an armed teacher would.
1.15.6.1.1. Pro: Non-uniformed personnel would not be readily identifiable to other responding officers as law enforcement, and would probably be mistaken for suspects.
1.15.6.1.2. Pro: Deputized school staff are extremely unlikely to have training or experience on par with the average patrol officer.
1.15.7. Pro: Teachers carrying weapons should be a last resort in the line of defense of creating a safer school \(using structural and administrative safeguards, such as reinforced doors and safety checks\), because if the other safety measures are strong enough, then teachers would not need to carry weapons.
1.15.7.1. Pro: Staff, teachers and students can be trained and equipped to deal with school shootings in non-violent ways until law enforcement arrives to handle the situation.
1.15.7.1.1. Pro: Making [door stops](http://www.news.com.au/technology/innovation/inventions/school-massacres-us-students-use-classroom-inventions-to-save-their-own-lives/news-story/e13d6aab869f21105de7a91dda83ff2c) available can ensure that shooters have a hard time entering class rooms in which teachers and students hide. This might deter shooters looking for easy targets.
1.15.7.1.1.1. Con: This only means that the shooter will target different victims in the same location. Not every student or faculty member will be hidden behind a locked door.
1.15.7.1.1.2. Con: A shooter could easily circumvent this by attacking between classes, at a school assembly, or any other time when a large number of people in the school were not behind locked doors.
1.15.7.1.1.3. Con: A shooter might bring keys or breaching tools to circumvent locked doors and doorstops.
1.15.7.1.1.4. Con: Most classroom doors open outward to make the doors harder to force from the outside and to allow for easier evacuation from the inside. Doorstops are not effective from the inside of an outward opening door.
1.15.7.1.2. Pro: -> See 1.8.2.1.
1.15.7.1.3. Con: -> See 1.15.4.1.
1.15.7.1.4. Con: This would extend the amount of time that the shooter has unrestricted access to potential victims.
1.15.7.2. Pro: The structures, facilities and equipment of schools can be adapted to the threat to keep students, teachers and staff safe until law enforcement arrives.
1.15.7.2.1. Pro: Doors, their frames and locks [can be reinforced](http://www.news.com.au/technology/innovation/inventions/school-massacres-us-students-use-classroom-inventions-to-save-their-own-lives/news-story/e13d6aab869f21105de7a91dda83ff2c) to make it impossible for someone to enter locked classrooms in which students hide during a shooting.
1.15.7.2.1.1. Pro: In addition, the windows in doors or adjacent to them can be equipped with [bulletproof glass](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/30/nyregion/new-sandy-hook-school-is-ready-nearly-4-years-after-massacre.html).
1.15.7.2.1.1.1. Con: Bulletproof glass is [expensive](http://www.bulldogdirect.com/flat-sheet-bullet-resistant-glass-faq/) and pointless, considering that the [walls are not bulletproof](https://www.gun-tests.com/issues/27_11/features/Handgun-Bullets-How-Do-They-Penetrate-in-Home-Materials-26552-1.html#.WuOq-RlME0M).
1.15.7.2.1.2. Pro: Experience of past school shootings shows that students and teachers in locked classrooms [generally remain unharmed](https://www.campussafetymagazine.com/safety/7-lessons-learned-from-sandy-hook/).
1.15.7.2.1.2.1. Con: Students and teachers in any part of the building where the shooter is not located generally remain unharmed. Simply locking a door is not a complete solution.
1.15.7.2.1.3. Con: Locked and reinforced doors are not impassable barriers. They can be bypassed with a key, with simple breaching equipment, or by shooting through doors or through walls.
1.15.7.2.1.4. Con: Most schools already have sturdy doors with good locks and strong frames.
1.15.7.2.2. Con: Many measures that harden schools against intrusion can also turn them into a trap for students. [Bulletproof film](http://www.news.com.au/technology/innovation/inventions/school-massacres-us-students-use-classroom-inventions-to-save-their-own-lives/news-story/e13d6aab869f21105de7a91dda83ff2c) on windows can make it harder to break them during a fire, [barricades](https://www.abcactionnews.com/news/local-news/i-team-investigates/school-officials-say-locks-barricades-and-training-prevented-more-shooting-deaths-in-parkland) to block doors can become fire hazards.
1.15.7.2.3. Pro: The design of schools and school grounds can enable administrators and security to see [who is approaching the school](https://www.the74million.org/article/after-sandy-hook-massacre-designing-schools-for-safety/), for example by funneling people onto specific paths or even narrow bridges and allowing for clear lines of sight.
1.15.7.2.3.1. Con: Administrators can already see who is approaching the school under most current school designs.
1.15.7.2.3.2. Con: Funneling all approaching people onto narrow bridges is not feasible for most schools. This sort of design would be far more costly to implement and far less effective than simply arming teachers.
1.15.7.2.3.3. Con: The [CPTED](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crime_prevention_through_environmental_design) program is not a new idea, it has been in place since the 70's. Although it is useful for reducing certain problems, crime prevention through environmental design was never meant to be the only way that we address crime.
1.15.7.3. Con: It is common practice to have guns available even where passive security measures are in place, such as metal detectors at airports and sports events.
1.15.7.3.1. Pro: At stadiums that host NFL games, metal detectors are used to screen all guests, yet armed personnel is part of the security concept. The [Mercedes-Benz Superdome](https://www.securitymagazine.com/articles/85610-balancing-security-and-the-fan-experience-in-sports-security) in New Orleans, for example, even has "24/7 coverage of commissioned armed public safety officers".
1.15.7.4. Con: Other security measures are already in place in schools. They obviously aren't strong enough to prevent attacks.
1.15.7.5. Con: Arming teachers as a last line of defense is acceptable. The fact that there are other defenses in place does not negate this one, especially since the other defenses will fail at some point.
1.15.8. Pro: Schools and governments should focus on improving mental health. With these measures, potential shooters could be helped beforehand to prevent shootings. Without shootings \(in the future\), teachers would not need to be weaponized.
1.15.8.1. Con: Schools and the government already work to improve mental health, but shootings and other crimes still occur.
1.15.8.2. Con: Not every shooting can or should be attributed to mental illness.
1.15.8.3. Con: Some mental patients, including the particularly dangerous ones, may not cooperate with treatment.
1.15.9. Pro: Gun legislation could be made stricter.
1.15.9.1. Con: Even if guns could be made unavailable, this would only be trading gun violence for bombs or other weapons. Security measures are better than laws for increasing safety.
1.15.9.1.1. Con: Most other instruments for killing require either significant preparation \(e.g. bombs\) or are far less effective at doing a lot of damage in a very short time \(e.g. improvised weapons\).
1.15.9.1.1.1. Con: Most mass shootings have already involved significant preparation, the work that goes into creating explosives is hardly prohibitive.
1.15.9.1.1.2. Con: Under the right circumstances \(such as using a vehicle for a weapon at an outdoor rally\), improvised weapons are roughly on par with guns in terms of destructive capability.
1.15.9.1.2. Pro: Shrapnel devices and other bombs are relatively easy to make with easily accessible and legal materials, and have terrifying destructive capability.
1.15.9.2. Pro: For example, if laws prevent anyone from having more than two non-automatic guns \(one main, one spare\), then shooters would have less capabilities to work with.
1.15.9.2.1. Con: This is incorrect. Law-abiding citizens would have less capabilities to work with; the criminal contemplating a mass-shooting has already determined to violate the law, and would not be constrained by another law.
1.15.9.3. Con: The second amendment constrains the government from infringing, without cause, the citizen's right to keep and bear arms.
1.15.9.4. Con: It is wrong to assume that an individual willing to shoot innocent students while at school is prone to following laws. If school shooters followed laws there would be no school shooters at all.
1.15.9.4.1. Con: These laws would also influence every person around that future school shooter, including the seller of their firearm among others. This is the expected means by which such laws would curtail gun violence.
1.15.9.5. Pro: -> See discussion #9746: The sale of [semi-automatic rifles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semi-automatic_rifle) \(external box magazine\) should be banned.
1.15.9.6. Pro: Bump stocks could be banned, making it harder for a shooter to shoot as quickly.
1.15.9.6.1. Pro: [The Las Vegas shooter](https://www.cnn.com/2017/10/04/us/bump-stock-las-vegas-shooting/index.html) used a bump stock.
1.15.9.6.2. Con: Although there are exceptions, most mass murderers \(including school shooters\) don't have any need to sustain a high rate of fire. In most situations, fully automatic weapons only burn through ammunition faster without actually causing more casualties.
1.15.9.7. Pro: The [gun show loophole](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gun_show_loophole) for private sellers could be closed, ensuring that prior to every purchase of a gun there is a background check.
1.15.9.7.1. Con: Enforcement of such a law would be impractical, and would largely rely on voluntary compliance, something for which criminals are not known.
1.15.9.8. Con: Gun legislation regulates only the purchasing and ownership of guns. This doesn't deal with the reasons for why people use guns, and thereby the actual sources of mass shootings.
1.15.9.8.1. Pro: In relation to the number of guns owned in America, we see a low number of mass shootings, thus guns alone can hardly be to blame.
1.15.9.8.1.1. Pro: In the past five decades, ['only' 150 mass shootings](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2018/national/mass-shootings-in-america/?utm_term=.787653e1969d) took place in the US. This indicates that the easy availability of weapons is by no means a sufficient precondition.
1.15.9.8.2. Con: Regulating the purchasing and ownership of guns will stifle the impact of the gun industry has upon the everyday lives of citizens, and by extension the reason why people use guns.
1.15.9.8.2.1. Pro: Reducing the presence of guns in society will decrease the likelihood that a gun will be used to harm another individual as fewer people will use guns.
1.15.9.8.2.1.1. Con: -> See 1.15.9.1.
1.15.9.8.2.2. Pro: If guns are less accessible, they'll be less present in society, and therefore minimize the normalization of guns. If the idea of owning and using a gun appears less normal, people will have less reasons to use guns.
1.15.9.8.3. Con: People use guns for mass shootings because guns are easy to use and accessible items which makes mass shootings easier to do. If people have a harder time accessing guns, their ability to cause mass shootings will be significantly reduced.
1.15.9.8.3.1. Con: -> See 1.15.9.1.
1.15.10. Con: The existence of alternative measures for mitigating opportunities for mass attacks is not justification for eliminating the possibility of responding to mass attacks using force. It's best to do both.
1.16. Con: -> See 1.1.12.4.