Discussion Title: Should Children With Down Syndrome Be Educated Separately?

1. People With Down Syndrome Should Be Taught In Mainstream Education.
1.1. Pro: Down syndrome should not be taken into account if students are able to demonstrate that they have the capacity to learn the material.
1.1.1. Pro: If the child with DS is capable of doing the work \(even if he/she's slower at it\), he/she should spend at least part of his/her day in mainstream classes. Some children with DS would be better off being individually educated while others would do very well being 100% mainstream. Most fall somewhere in the middle.
1.1.2. Con: Just 'learning the material' is not the only part of education, it is a holistic experience encompassing information processing, reinterpretation, and skills like organisation, essay-writing, planning and more. These are not all skills a Downs Syndrome child are likely to have as readily available.
1.2. Pro: Coexisting with handicapped children may prove insightful for other children to their problems.
1.2.1. Con: It may also lead to bullying, as they are would be so transparently different to their peers.
1.2.2. Pro: Children would develop greater empathy and understanding of human differences.
1.2.3. Con: Children may also find their Downs Syndrome peers frustrating or difficult to communicate with, engendering resentment rather than positive emotions.
1.3. Con: Coeducation with children with Down Syndrome may [hinder the development process](https://theconversation.com/can-inclusive-education-do-more-harm-than-good-43183) of other children.
1.3.1. Con: An inclusive system makes every child feel more included, fosters a positive learning atmosphere and increases engagement and attention in all students. Thus it has been shown to benefit [all](https://inclusiveschools.org/together-we-learn-better-inclusive-schools-benefit-all-children/) students.
1.4. Pro: Children with Down syndrome surrounded by regularly-developed peers can receive a boost in their development.
1.4.1. Pro: It gives such children a social and educational framework that allows them to feel [wanted and included](https://nbacl.nb.ca/module-pages/inclusive-education-and-its-benefits/).
1.4.1.1. Pro: This benefits neurotypical children as much as Down Syndrome children, as they are surrounded examples of care and attention from authority figures in the knowledge that they, too, will be looked after.
1.4.2. Con: This is excellent, but not if it is to the detriment of other children's learning.
1.4.2.1. Pro: A balance needs to be struck between the social and educational advancement: it is difficult to argue against the social benefits of integrated teaching, but educationally, standards have to be maintained somehow.
1.4.3. Pro: Accessing mainstream education offers [opportunities](https://www.opensocietyfoundations.org/explainers/value-inclusive-education) that would otherwise never be available to people with down syndrome because they can work towards the same qualifications, without the stigma that arises from segregated education.
1.5. Pro: Involving them in mainstream education normalizes their illness and helps the integration with other children.
1.6. Con: There is already a huge problem with bullying among similarly-developing children. Mixing Down syndrome children with other is providing the latter group with an obvious target for harassment.
1.6.1. Pro: Disabled children are [two to three times more likely](https://www.qld.gov.au/disability/children-young-people/bullying-disability-mental-health) to be bullied than neurotypical peers.
1.6.1.1. Con: You can take all of the kids with DS out of mainstream education, but the problem of bullying won't go away until we refuse to tolerate it. Instead, the bullies will target the kids who are overweight; a different color; or in a number of other ways considered to be different and, thus, a mark for bullying.
1.6.2. Con: If teachers and parents intervene and educate appropriately, the response could be one more of empathy than of antagonism.
1.6.2.1. Con: This is unrealistically idealistic.
1.7. Pro: There are various levels of Down syndrome. Some are suitable for education with other children.
1.7.1. Con: If only some are suitable, it shouldn't be a blanket rule that all Downs Syndrome children are placed in mainstream education.
1.7.2. Con: There technically aren't 'levels' of Down syndrome; it is a chromosomal abnormality. They cannot be neatly classified into different levels of ability, but rather it requires constant assessment which can be time-consuming.
1.7.2.1. Con: While it may be caused by a chromosomal abnormality, there are discernible degrees of severity that can generally be assessed quite early on.
1.7.2.1.1. Con: Only broadly speaking, and the nuance of a child's educational capabilities needs more close attention than a rough idea of severity.
1.7.3. Pro: As such, wherever possible, education should be integrated.
1.7.4. Pro: It may be worth trial and error; a child may be put into mixed education but deemed unable to cope, and as long as that can be facilitated, that would be a positive experience.
1.7.4.1. Con: The disruption and practicalities of this idea mean it is unlikely to be as helpful in practise.
1.8. Con: Down syndrome children require much more care, attention and most likely extensive therapy, making the whole undertaking very costly and time-consuming. This time could be used for further development of children without Down syndrome.
1.8.1. Pro: Children without Down syndrome will be exposed to a slower pace of education when they could be progressing far faster.
1.8.2. Pro: Down Syndrome children would then be able to participate in tailored education that properly addresses their needs.
1.8.3. Con: Coeducation can be a part of therapy, thus reducing the cost, time and effort.
1.8.3.1. Con: The therapy requires a well-trained staff. Unexperienced children may do more harm than good, both to the recipients of the therapy and to themselves by developing prejudices.