Discussion Title: Should More Congressional Voting Be By Secret Ballot?

1. More congressional voting should be by secret ballot.
1.1. Con: We won't be able to use our cool voting light boards anymore.
1.1.1. Con: The cool voting board can easily be replaced with a cool results board.
1.1.2. Con: This is not a viable or relevant objection on a serious topic.
1.2. Pro: People from all sides of the political spectrum have been searching for a way to get money out of politics. This is a way to do it.
1.2.1. Con: A secret ballot does not ban campaign contributions or limit lobbying. It might make some difference, but since the constituency doesn't see the voting record either, the result could be the opposite. Either way, to say that it would eliminate money in politics is just false.
1.3. Pro: Congressmen will vote with their own consciences.
1.3.1. Con: Congress people might support the interests of lobbyists either way, since they have an interest in them flourishing.
1.4. Pro: Foreign countries will stop giving congressmen money since they won't know whether the congressman vote as instructed.
1.5. Con: Neither Senators nor members of the House of Representatives are entitled to secrecy of balloting.  They do not vote on their own behalf, but on the behalf of people of their states or districts, and those consistuents have an absolute right to know how their representatives are representing them.
1.6. Pro: The political party would not be able to control the congressmen.
1.6.1. Pro: Each political party won't have as much influence.
1.7. Con: Constituencies will not know how their individual congressmen vote.
1.7.1. Pro: It will be a big blow to accountability. A congressman may say one thing in the public to get elected and may secretly vote the other way. At an aggregate level, this may result in formulating policies or laws which go against the wishes and aspirations of the majority of the governed.
1.7.2. Pro: Secret ballots might make it easier to influence votes since there is no transparency.
1.8. Pro: Companies, unions, and special interests will give congressmen less money since they won't know if the congressman votes as instructed.
1.8.1. Con: They could also give more, just to be extra sure.
1.9. Con: Lobbying groups may go out of business.
1.9.1. Con: Interest groups are important to decision making since they supply information.
1.9.1.1. Pro: Operators of nuclear power plants, for example, know best about the ins and outs of their facilities.
1.9.1.2. Pro: Decision-makers are often no experts in the subject matter they deal with and therefore rely on third partners.
1.10. Con: John Mccain and Nancy Pelosi will have to learn to live on their senator's salary.  They are not alone.  The point is that most congressmen and getting substantial amounts of money under various guises, not for the purpose getting their attention, but for getting their vote on a specific agenda.
1.10.1. Con: Secret ballots will not mean the end of campaign contributions and lobbying. Some politicians might secretly do the right thing, but most won't. Many of them are selected by business because they already believe the "right" things.
1.10.1.1. Pro: Politicians have an interest that their constituencies get better, which includes lobbying in favor of otherwise destructive policies, such as coal mining.
1.10.2. Pro: If perceived as a solution to money in politics, it would stifle movements that are actually trying to solve those problems.