Discussion Title: Should the Kinder Morgan pipeline expansion be built?

1. The Kinder Morgan pipeline expansion should not be built.
1.1. Pro: We are doing permanent damage to the environment and emphasis should be on winding production down and replacing energy jobs instead of expanding
1.1.1. Con: Until a replacement for the use of plastics in all high tech devices, alternative energy production and commercial consumption is created, then this oil will be needed, and industry will supply.
1.2. Pro: The LOOP terminal in Louisiana will effectively make the Barnaby port obsolete as it can service the new super tankers, and Barnaby cannot.
1.2.1. Con: America will export Canada's oil with less royalties going to First Nations and Canadian cities and provinces and looser environmental restrictions.
1.2.2. Con: Louisiana is on the East Coast and these super tankers will not have access to the Panama Canal \(due to size restrictions\) meaning that the Asian market will not be serviced from that location.
1.3. Con: Profits are being lost in Alberta and therefore Canada.
1.4. Pro: Jobs are put at risk in BC.
1.4.1. Con: By rejecting the rule of law \(NEB approval process\) new resource develop projects will not choose Canada, specifically British Columbia, to extract resources from if given a choice. That choice will cost many more quality high paying jobs than running a pipeline through Burnaby
1.5. Con: The Federal government should supersede Provincial inquiry
1.5.1. Con: The Indigenous title holders' governments should supersede the Federal government.
1.6. Pro: The NEB conditions have not been met.
1.7. Con: The holdup is a political maneuver by the BC government to stay in power
1.8. Pro: The holdup is a political maneuver by a foreign corporation, to force our Federal government to comply with conditions they are unwilling to meet
1.8.1. Con: The holdup is a provincial government going to court to attempt to enhance their authority and using the courts to inject an element of uncertainty to a completed multi year approval process.
1.9. Pro: It is against the constitution to overrule any First Nation's rights.
1.9.1. Pro: The Burnaby Mountain facility is on unceded Coast Salish territory and the Tsliel-Waututh and Squamish Nations are currently opposed to the pipeline expansion. In BC, tenants are not allowed to make improvements without a landlord's express permission.
1.10. Con: Trudeau promises a historic ocean protection plan
1.10.1. Con: There is no way to recover sunken bitumen
1.10.2. Pro: There is a theoretical method of cleaning up sunken bitumen from the university of Alberta [www.jwnenergy.com](http://www.jwnenergy.com/article/2017/4/oil-spill-clean-technology-could-provide-solution-sinking-bitumen/) funded from Oilsands production. The increased royalties from this project may put that theory into practical application
1.11. Pro: The environmental damage is more expensive than the gains made from royalties.
1.11.1. Con: Looking from a world wide perspective and assuming that Canadian regulations are stronger than most on the planet and that oil will be drilled/mined somewhere to meet the demand, is it better to produce the oil here where it can be monitored and tracked instead of where it will not. This will reduce global environmental damage and provide royalties.
1.12. Con: The world needs this oil.
1.12.1. Con: The world is increasingly moving towards green energy, meaning the demand for oil is likely to dwindle.
1.12.2. Con: Decisions should prioritise national interest before foreign interest.
1.12.3. Pro: The oil is being sold to the world already, with most of the profits going to American oil barons, and very little in the way of environmental protections through American ports.
1.12.4. Pro: Until we stop using 100 million barrels a day, in fuel, plastics, lubricants etc there will always be a demand. It will take decades to reduce that amount to a point when this pipeline will not be feasible and then we can move to transporting other products though it.
1.13. Con: Albertan Conservatives say anybody against the pipeline is a paid protester and a hypocrite.
1.13.1. Con: The Albertan Conservatives have a political agenda and should not be trusted on this.
1.14. Con: The Federal government is breaking a promise to Alberta.
1.15. Pro: A bitumen spill in our coastal waters would be catastrophic.
1.16. Pro: The demand for oil in the future will decrease, and there is no guarantee the export of raw product will remain profitable.
1.16.1. Con: With usage increasing to over 100 million barrels a day there is a long time before it is no longer needed. This timeline is currently predicted at 60-100 years \(lifetime of the pipeline\).  This specific "oil" is used primarily in plastics making it ongoing demand even after it's use for fuel expires
1.16.2. Con: There is a theory that demand for oil in the future will actually increase due to our use of plastics and ultra light materials.  Most of these are oil based.
1.17. Pro: In the event of a spill, Canadians will pay for the majority of cleanup efforts, kinder Morgan is not able to offer enough funding for insurance.
1.17.1. Con: Kinder Morgan has offered billions in ocean protection monies that are off the table without the pipeline. Potential for catastrophic spills would not be decreased without the pipeline, but funding for watching commercial traffic would not be coming.
1.17.2. Con: In Canada it will get cleaned up, in other parts of the world it would be allowed to pollute the seafloor until it is not longer toxic. Royalties from this project should be used for that exact purpose in the unlikely event of a major spill.
1.18. Con: Canada will waste the opportunity to sell the product.
1.19. Pro: Refining should happen in Alberta instead.
1.19.1. Con: Selling and shipping flammables and explosives to China rather than unrefined bitumen would be more hazardous.
1.19.2. Con: We do but the cost and timelines in building those refineries extend well beyond the financial viability at this time, in the mid term \(10-20 years\) we need both expanding refining capacity and expanding export opportunities and we are doing both
1.20. Con: Many First Nations have invited compensation settlements and support the pipeline
1.20.1. Pro: [cbc.ca](http://www.cbc.ca/news/indigenous/bc-first-nations-kinder-morgan-pipeline-1.4626497) apparently has compiled a list from the NEB, of 43 groups that have made agreements
1.20.2. Con: Not all nations along the route are in favour. If one were to propose a pipeline from Kiev to Amsterdam, they would need approval from the Netherlands even if 43 European nations favoured the pipeline.
1.21. Con: Canada 'needs this pipeline'.
1.21.1. Con: Canada might [cover the loss](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-kinder-morgan-cn-pipeline/canada-government-ready-to-indemnify-kinder-morgan-pipeline-project-idUSKCN1IH1PU) for Kinder Morgan.
1.22. Pro: Trains are safer than pipelines.
1.22.1. Con: There is already a pipeline in place; namely the [Trans Mountain Pipeline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trans_Mountain_Pipeline).
1.22.2. Con: Train derailments and spills occur more frequently than oil pipeline spills and cross multiple sensitive areas where even a minor spill could cause major environmental damage.
1.22.3. Pro: Trains transport undiluted bitumen while pipelines use toxic dilution methods