Discussion Title: Should LGBT Campaigning Use The Narrative That LGBT People Are 'Born This Way'?

1. Should the LGBT rights movement campaign use the narrative that queer individuals were "born that way"?
1.1. Con: 'Born this way' is too simplistic and it is incorrect to campaign as though sexuality \(and by extension, gender\) are inherent, and often binary concepts, rather than social constructs.
1.1.1. Con: Governments are "social constructs". That doesn't mean they are not real. Using "social construct" as an implied synonym of "not real" is a fallacy.
1.1.1.1. Con: Something being real and something being relevant are two different matters. Governments exist, but that is not to say Governments exist naturally, or should exist.
1.1.2. Pro: 'Born This Way' implies that being LGBT is something one should know automatically, as it has always been within the individual, and discourages the exploration of identity over time.
1.1.3. Pro: It is important that campaigns reflect the experienced truth of individuals to include them within the movement that advocates for their interests and rights.
1.1.3.1. Pro: Often legislative and social change requires tradeoffs. You cannot both affirm that sexuality and gender identity are inherent and tear down social structures that reinforce those notions. Thus, when choosing where to prioritise efforts, it is important to know which is true.
1.1.3.1.1. Con: It is possible to not promote either, and instead focus energies on circumstances where there are no tradeoffs \(eg. legalising homosexuality across the world\).
1.1.3.1.1.1. Pro: This also tends to divert resources to the most basic and fundamental rights to be won - which often has the highest marginal impact \(one extra dollar of funding, or one extra minute of screen time does the most good in these areas\).
1.1.3.2. Con: One organization cannot represent the needs and wants of countless different individuals united only be a single trait which is their non-heterosexual orientation.
1.1.4. Con: The narrative can mean: 'born this way' with a fluid gender identity. Thus an individual is born with a biological predisposition to respond in a certain way to environmental and social influences on their sexuality. This is valuable.
1.1.4.1. Con: Being born fluid means they have the choice to be LGBT or straight. In the end the argument of being "born fluid" simply leaves everything up to nurture, not nature.
1.1.4.1.1. Con: Sexual orientation is not a choice. Cisgender heterosexual people [do not choose](https://www.apa.org/topics/lgbt/orientation.aspx) their sexual orientation \(aka who they are attracted to\), nor does anyone else.
1.1.4.2. Con: If LGBT people take the phrase seriously and truly believe they are born that way and therefore can't change then they have no right to expect anyone else to change. Anybody can claim they were born with tendencies that run counter to their ways and ideals and make that case for remaining as they are.
1.1.5. Con: It is not necessarily illegitimate to campaign, even under wholly false premises, if it achieves social liberation.
1.1.5.1. Pro: The utilitarian and social effectiveness of a campaign narrative may be more important considerations than the 'correctness' of the narrative itself.
1.1.5.1.1. Pro: The results that the 'born this way' narrative can achieve are potentially life-saving, and the harms of the untruth are relatively minor, as they pertain to relatively high-level understandings and rights.
1.1.5.1.2. Con: This may achieve negative end results, and therefore should not be chosen, even under this utilitarian framework.
1.1.5.1.2.1. Pro: 'Born this way' will simply come to mean: "born this way but it's worse."
1.1.5.1.2.2. Pro: In the event that people are not born this way, it will not be credible for the movement to change its messaging so fundamentally.
1.1.5.1.2.2.1. Pro: That will make people believe that there is a specific agenda that LGBT movements are pursuing, and they will be more likely to question changes in attitudes and legislation that they have achieved.
1.1.5.1.2.2.2. Pro: This is particularly important given that small subsets  of the population will always remain homophobic and transphobic, and thus, liberation movements need to consistently reaffirm rights even in places where they have been won.
1.1.5.1.3. Con: Even if this achieves good results, the opportunity cost needs to be considered. So even under a utilitarian framework, it is important to consider whether this is worth the sacrificed victories that could be won using the alternative.
1.1.5.1.3.1. Pro: An example of this is equal marriage - while liberating in the sense that it ends discrimination, it means that queer people are still expected to conform to monogamous norms and have their relationships validated by the state, by making themselves as like 'normal' cisheterosexual couples as possible.
1.1.5.1.3.2. Pro: Deconstructing normative social stances on sexuality and gender altogether, while potentially longer and harder to do, ends up liberating all people because there are no longer categories and expectations at all.
1.1.5.1.3.2.1. Pro: A post-normative one requires rejecting that individuals are born this way, and embracing the idea that all choices should be validated and that there is a strong social element to lots of personal actions made unquestioningly.
1.1.5.1.4. Pro: Messaging, like 'born this way', that seeks to deconstruct gender norms and sexuality is more important, because it prevents any oppression from occurring, rather than simply changing rights within an oppressive framework.
1.1.5.1.5. Pro: There is no particularly clear reason to prioritise telling people that gender and sexual identities are constructs over that they are immutable.
1.1.5.1.5.1. Pro: Given it is still unclear whether gender identity and sexuality are inherent, and therefore it is not certain that there is a huge harm in choosing to campaign as though they are.
1.1.5.1.5.2. Pro: It is ineffective to try and provide the full nuance of the uncertainties surrounding this question - campaigning often relies on repeated, memorable messaging, and 'born this way' carries across better than theses about 'a number of potential relationships between experienced gender, sexual desire, social context and your genetics'. Thus, it is necessary to pick one narrative and stick with it.
1.1.5.1.5.3. Pro: A genetic basis for gender/sexual identity is more 'provable' than that they are socialised \(eg. we may discover a 'gay gene'\). Thus, this is the claim that should be campaigned on.
1.1.5.1.5.3.1. Pro: If decisively proven true, it will be very compelling to campaign with. If proven false, then it will prove the social nature of identity, which will also become more compelling. Emphasising the more \(dis\)provable claim, therefore, should be prioritised if you are unsure which of them is true.
1.1.5.1.6. Pro: It is easier to get people to accept that LGBT identities are inherent and immutable than it is to get them to accept that gender and sexuality are artificial constructs.
1.1.5.1.6.1. Pro: This is closer to analogies about unchangeable characteristics that people already understand and accept - genetic differences, ethnicity, and so on - and thus, it is not as difficult an idea for them to grasp as the deconstruction of gender and compulsory heteronormativity.
1.1.5.1.6.2. Pro: The socialisation of individuals to buy into the gender binary and the expectation of heterosexuality is so complete, that individuals are often hesitant to disbelieve in them, since they themselves have been socialised so strongly they believe it to be an inherent part of their nature.
1.1.5.1.6.2.1. Pro: This means, even if it is 'true' that gender and sexuality are not inherent, people are less likely to believe that because they believe their own \(socially accepted\) gender and sexual identities are inherent.
1.1.5.1.6.3. Con: Queerphobic campaigners persistently decouple LGBT identity from immutability, presenting them as choices \(eg. 'choosing' to commit a sin; 'lying' about your gender to sexually predate on others, etc.\). As they have already decided that being LGBT is not immutable it is actually easier to convince them that this is a valid choice, rather than convincing them that LGBT are 'born this way'.
1.1.5.1.7. Pro: Regardless of whether acceptance comes from understanding gender and sexuality as immutable characteristics or as completely artificial ones, the end result \(the achievement of the freedoms from abuse and oppression\) is the same.
1.1.5.1.7.1. Pro: Thus, unless there is a particularly pressing reason to prioritise understanding gender and sexuality as completely artificial constructs, the easiest path should be prioritised.
1.1.5.1.8. Pro: The LGBT movement aims to increase acceptance, and thereby change laws, behaviours and social freedoms for an oppressed minority group.
1.1.5.1.8.1. Pro: This is particularly important because in the worst circumstances, LGBT people continue, around the world, to face the risk of [horrors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Violence_against_LGBT_people) such as execution, corrective rape, torturous 'cures' such as electroshock therapy and physical assault.
1.1.5.1.8.1.1. Pro: This abuse is so pressing that it must be prioritised at all costs.
1.1.5.1.9. Con: It is morally important for campaigns to be as honest as possible, even if this means that change is slower or less complete.
1.1.5.1.9.1. Pro: It's hard to come up with 'objective' stances on utilitarian outcomes without being paternalistic and imposing 'our' own moral values onto actions. Thus, we should campaign using the least normative and restrictive stances and construct moral claims based on outcome: what achieves the most freedom, agency, and thus dignity, for individuals to determine their own choices.
1.1.5.1.9.2. Pro: Furthermore, campaigns do more than just advocate for rights - they often provide safe spaces and support for members of their community. If they are campaigning using messaging that is dishonest, these members do not gain access to that support and do not feel included in the movement.
1.1.5.2. Con: Truth matters, to bend the truth for the sake of a preferred political or social outcome is immoral and will do more damage in the long run.
1.1.5.3. Con: If this, or any other, is a worthy cause, trickery and lies should not be part of the discourse.
1.1.6. Con: [Research in early behavior](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9047263) suggests that our identification with social constructs, including gender, is something we're born with.
1.1.7. Pro: This fosters a sense that only the queer actions of those who feel they were born queer are authentic, and invalidate the questioning and experimentation of others who may feel they are doing it as a conscious choice.
1.1.7.1. Pro: Regardless of whether people are born this way or not, and whether they identify as anything other than cisgender or straight, some people will engage in non-heteronormative activity and non-cisnormative gender expressions.
1.1.7.1.1. Pro: Conscious decisions to engage in activities outside of socially prescribed norms should not be invalidated. This does that.
1.1.7.1.1.1. Pro: It suggests that your decision to engage with queerness is 'not real' in the same way that another's is, and that puts it in a hierarchy below the actions of those who feel they were born this way. This harms two important groups of people.
1.1.7.1.1.1.1. Pro: It limits the scope of experimentation that people who don't realise they are LGBT can engage with, because they do not feel that they are, in fact, LGBT.
1.1.7.1.1.1.2. Pro: It means that the community and its resources are less likely to be open to those who need support for engaging in queerness, even when they are not - for example, for people who gender-bend in their dress but do not identify as trans. They nonetheless face discrimination and the risk of violence, but have little access to support.
1.1.7.2. Pro: Particularly for individuals who come from homophobic or otherwise repressed backgrounds, the belief that they are queer may come only after a prolonged period of experimentation and struggle.
1.1.7.2.1. Con: These individuals can fall back on the 'born this way' narrative when they eventually realise that they are queer. In turn this can allow them to rationalise or understand past problems and confusion in a way that allows them to reconcile themselves with their identity and move forward.
1.1.7.2.1.1. Con: This could equally well be done without the 'born this way' narrative, as individuals could make sense of their past issues by rationalising them as a prolonged decision-making process. Furthermore this has the advantage of allowing those individuals to have agency over their identity, making a positive choice to be and act a certain way, rather than falling into it because they "can't help it".
1.1.7.3. Pro: "Born this way" reinforces existing sex and gender binaries and dichotomies by telling individuals that their identity was formed at birth. If it is inbuilt then it is also an essential quality of an individual.
1.1.7.3.1. Pro: If identity is essential, then it is also immutable, and individuals must fit into some pre-existing set of categories of identity. This goes against the nature queerness, which is not formed from pre-set categories of identity, but rather from the notion that we ought to question existing conceptions of identity.
1.1.7.3.1.1. Con: Even if identity itself is inherent, that does not mean that the way in which we currently categorise it corresponds with reality.
1.1.7.3.1.1.1. Con: Regardless, because even in queer communities, hegemonic groups \(e.g. white cis gays or lesbians\) tend to push individuals into \(also hegemonic\) categories queer individuals are likely to be pushed into an existing category.
1.1.7.3.1.1.1.1. Pro: These categories are likely to be those that correspond to the experiences of the most powerful groups, which will necessarily contradict the nature of queerness.
1.1.7.3.1.1.1.2. Pro: This is likely because even in queer communities, hegemonic groups \(e.g. white cis gays or lesbians\) tend to push individuals into \(also hegemonic\) categories.
1.1.7.3.1.1.1.2.1. Pro: For example, questioning individuals are often pressured into identifying as gay or straight, rather than bisexual or non-conforming.
1.1.7.3.1.1.1.2.2. Con: Queer spaces are ideally placed to push back against this kind of use of power, because their very existence is radical and as such there is always opposition to attempts to essentialise the queer experience.
1.1.7.3.1.1.2. Pro: In saying that identity is inbuilt rather than chosen, we do not prevent people from queering categories, because we still allow them to question whether the categories that we have constructed are the correct ones.
1.1.7.3.1.2. Pro: LGBT rights groups ought to support the questioning and queering of pre-existing categorisations of identity, something which 'born this way' prevents.
1.2. Pro: The "born this way" narrative appeals to individuals and groups who might otherwise be skeptical of, or hostile to, LGBT rights.
1.2.1. Con: Furthering the cause based on ideas of biology and genetics is valuable, but only to a certain degree. Making it the only argument for securing rights is not helpful in the long run. The overall strategy should be making sure people treat others well and fairly without regard to etiology.
1.2.1.1. Pro: There are instances in college education where, when people learn about the biology/genetics of sexual orientation, they then make the leap to pathologizing non-heterosexuality and seeking a "cure".
1.2.1.1.1. Con: Bad pedagogy and the naive opinions of college students don't seem particularly relevant to this issue. If it's a leap to pathologize sexuality this implies that it is not a logically valid conclusion.
1.2.1.2. Con: Using 'born this way' is just one argument, not the only argument for securing human rights for queer people.
1.2.2. Con: Empirically, individuals who believe that sexual identity is immutable [can still be, and often are, homophobic](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/born-this-way-sexual-orientation_us_56ba4b59e4b0b40245c465f0).
1.2.2.1. Con: The referenced study has a small population from a very specific group, which makes the claims questionable.
1.2.2.2. Con: Focusing on only the external view of some people ignores the impact on LGBT+ people themselves. There is evidence that belief in naturalness \(innateness\) of identity is associated to lower internalized stigma. [Born This Way: Sexual Orientation Beliefs and Their Correlates in Lesbian and Bisexual Women](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/316112260_Born_This_Way_Sexual_Orientation_Beliefs_and_Their_Correlates_in_Lesbian_and_Bisexual_Women)
1.2.2.3. Pro: This is exemplified by the "love the sinner, hate the sin" argument, that tells LGBT people they ought to resist their "urges" and live a life of celibacy.
1.2.2.3.1. Con: These arguments exist in a world without the narrative, too. The only difference is that they are framed as more to do with choice of identity and action, rather than just choice of action.
1.2.2.3.1.1. Pro: In a world where the 'born this way' narrative is commonplace, it reduces the number of steps needed to gain acceptance by taking identity choice out of the picture. This makes it easier for LGBT individuals to convince their families and communities of the validity of their identity.
1.2.2.4. Con: This claim also doesn't address the 'multiple audiences' nature of the discussion. There are sub-groups and some simply can't be reached at all. Those in the specific sub-group called out here are [very likely unreachable](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/284163978_Beyond_Born_This_Way_Reconsidering_Sexual_Orientation_Beliefs_and_Attitudes). They will refuse to recognize LGBT+ people's rights regardless of evidence or argument.
1.2.3. Con: The LGBT movement, like all movements, should not pursue misleading narratives.
1.2.3.1. Pro: Narratives which better represent the facts are always more convincing, in the long run, to all groups.
1.2.4. Con: "Born this way" forces LGBT individuals to justify their humanity by appealing to "nature", rather than their human dignity or the intrinsic worthiness of their choices.
1.2.4.1. Pro: Democratic nations are supposed to be about choices and being able to make them freely.
1.2.4.1.1. Pro: It does not matter if it is nature or nurture. If this is what people enjoy then that's an expression of their constitutional right to the pursuit of happiness.
1.2.4.1.2. Con: Democracy is not inherently about individual freedom to pursue one's wishes, but about laws chosen by the common will of the people.
1.2.4.1.2.1. Pro: Many [democratic nations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGBT_rights_by_country_or_territory#LGBT-related_laws_by_country_or_territory) took punitive legal stances against LGBT individuals until recently, and many still do. Democracies are not about free choices.
1.2.4.2. Con: "Born this way" does not neccessarily mean to be bound by nature. You can be born to be a piano prodigy but never awaken the talent.
1.2.4.2.1. Con: The genetic nature of talent is still [under discussion](https://www.amazon.com/dp/0307387305/?tag=dannyyee-20) and as such should not be taken as the basis for another argument.
1.2.4.3. Con: The choice narrative also doesn't necessarily provide a good justification of humanity. Not all choices are equal. If homosexuality is indeed a choice, it being tolerated by the wider community says nothing about its worthiness as a life choice.
1.2.4.4. Con: It is possible to advance more than one reason for acceptance; LGBT people can simultaneously maintain that they had no choice in the matter and that there is nothing wrong with their sexuality or gender identity in the first place.
1.2.4.4.1. Pro: Skin color is obviously not a choice and yet there is also obviously nothing intrinsically wrong with having a certain skin color. LGBT advocates can argue for acceptance and equality by analogy with skin color.
1.2.4.5. Pro: The ultimate measure of a moral act should be the [cost benefit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cost%E2%80%93benefit_analysis) analysis of joy to suffering that act produced in all people involved in that act. Acts of consenting sex and expressions rarely produce more suffering than joy in and of themselves. It might be argued that it is typically judgments pertaining to what is "natural" or attempts to pass-off subjective sexual preference as objective moral fact that produce suffering.
1.2.4.6. Pro: It needn't matter whether a person was 'born' with, or 'chose', a particular sexual orientation. All we need do is accept that it is the case and that it doesn't cause any demonstrable harm \(any behaviour which cannot be shown to be harmful should be permitted, regardless of whether we approve of it or not\). The 'born this way' narrative distracts from this more important issue.
1.2.4.7. Pro: The narrative commits the naturalistic fallacy. Whether you are born that way is irrelevant, and assumes that to have chosen to be that way would be wrong. The scientific fact of sexuality being biological is as obvious as it should be morally irrelevant. It is at best an apologist's stepping stone to convincing people who believe LGBT is intrinsically immoral and need an initial path to sympathizing with these people.The aim is too low. We believe are right, and we should be bolder.
1.2.4.8. Pro: The separation of sexual attraction from sexual choices renders it more difficult to demand tolerance and acceptance for those choices, as well as one's existence.
1.2.4.8.1. Pro: This is a problem for individuals who are bisexual or attracted to people of more than one gender. If they are accepted only for what is natural, rather than for their choices, then it is difficult to justify acting on their attraction towards people of the same gender if they would also be happy with someone of the "opposite sex".
1.2.4.8.1.1. Con: The whole narrative of the Born This Way slogan is that LGBT people do not choose who they love. Bisexual people entering relationships with same-sex people fall under this narrative.
1.2.4.8.2. Pro: This is a necessarily conservative form of social justice that tells LGBT individuals that their existence will be tolerated, but never celebrated, and that they will always be regarded as deviants from a norm of heterosexuality, feeding LGBTQ shame and stigma.
1.2.4.9. Con: The idea that people think only of LGBT individuals as either harmless or unable to help themselves is a false dichotomy, as there are a broad range of other viewpoints that can be had on LGBT rights.
1.2.4.10. Pro: Ultimately, it is invasive and non essential to know why queer folks are the way they are. It does not matter if the cause is genetic, influenced by upbringing or trauma, or purely choice. LGBT people should be ensured the same rights and autonomy as everyone else.
1.2.5. Pro: People tend to be convinced more by arguments that appeal to "nature", because one cannot change the circumstances of one's birth and moral responsibility only accrues based on the choices that we make.
1.2.5.1. Con: If this narrative claim does not succeed in achieving a change of heart for those who are sceptical of LGBT rights, it simply cements that oppression because now the deviant behaviour is seen as unchangeable and therefore the person themselves can never be accepted.
1.2.5.1.1. Pro: The worst circumstance is to have people continue to believe that LGBT rights should not be granted and believe that LGBT individuals can never redeem themselves.
1.2.5.1.1.1. Pro: This mindset leads oppressors to ostracise and, in the most extreme circumstances, threaten the lives of LGBT individuals.
1.2.5.1.1.2. Pro: Though suboptimal, the alternative is a life where individuals can pretend to have 'changed' and conform to cisheteronorms \(e.g. performing their assigned gender, being outwardly heterosexual\).
1.2.5.1.1.2.1. Pro: This can still be an important option to maintain physical and emotional safety for those, e.g. teenagers or the economically vulnerable, who have no ability to leave dangerous spaces.
1.2.5.2. Pro: This makes the narrative particularly helpful on metrics of trans-inclusivity \(which the LGBT community has historic and current problems with\), as it reaffirms that the principal lens through which one's identity ought to be judged and accepted is the way that you feel that you were born.
1.2.5.2.1. Con: As well as alienating those who are gender-fluid, it also comes into conflict with much of feminist thought, which often rejects that there is anything 'inherent' about womanhood to justify ending gender roles. This narrative becomes harder to reconcile with trans-exclusionary radical feminism.
1.2.5.2.1.1. Con: Many trans activists and feminists reconcile this difference all the time. Trans-exclusionary feminist thought is not as central to the movement as it was in the twentieth century.
1.2.5.2.1.1.1. Pro: For example, many well-known TERFs, such as Germaine Greer, face opposition from feminist societies and the media for not including trans women.
1.2.5.2.2. Con: This is a double-edged sword. In predicating the acceptance of identities on their being present from birth, we promote gender essentialist ideas that might liberate some trans people, but simultaneously entrap those whose identity is more fluid or non-conforming to binaries or essential categories.
1.2.5.2.2.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.7.3.
1.2.5.3. Con: This necessitates framing LGBT identities as deviant or inferior, because they are seen as valid only in virtue of their immutability.
1.2.5.3.1. Pro: This occurs because such campaigning essentially says to people 'accept me because I cannot help it', which suggests that you ought to accept someone *despite* their queerness.
1.2.5.3.2. Pro: Moreover, this opens the door to campaigning that being LGBT is equivalent to a 'disorder' or 'illness' - all of which are ways in which the identities of people are made to seem inferior, and which justify the medicalisation and psychotherapisation of being LGBT in very harmful ways.
1.2.5.3.2.1. Pro: When you have this narrative that people are LGBT because of the circumstances of their birth, individuals don't necessarily start to accept it, but instead, try to find 'cures'.
1.2.5.3.2.1.1. Pro: This includes things like genetic screening for 'the gay gene' and the use of medical therapies to 'correct' for being LGBT. In less formalised settings, this also includes other 'corrective' behaviours, such as physical, emotional, and sexual abuse.
1.2.5.4. Pro: Because LGBT people are marginalised in many countries, "born this way" is necessary as a stepping stone to acceptance through the use of the naturalist heuristic.
1.2.5.4.1. Pro: As well as naturalist frameworks making claims more acceptable in general, this is specifically useful where opposition to LGBT rights comes from religion.
1.2.5.4.1.1. Pro: Religion is a huge determinant of social behaviours. It constructs rules and laws using the authority of a God, and the threat of persecution, exclusion, or 'hell' to police those behaviours.
1.2.5.4.1.1.1. Pro: Religion and LGBT liberation are related. Whether this is because religious texts truly oppose being LGBT, whether they reflect less understanding social milieus, whether they are heteronormative to try and ensure reproduction of societies or whether they are in fact compatible with LGBT rights is irrelevant - either rightly or wrongly, anti-LGBT voices use religion as a justification for oppression.
1.2.5.4.1.2. Pro: This form of campaigning is specifically compatible with religious frameworks – if you can bring people around to the idea that you are 'born that way', then it's a small step from there to believe that 'God made me this way', or equivalent religion-compatible claims such as 'this is the plan God had for me', etc.
1.2.5.4.1.2.1. Pro: This is also important because the vast majority of the world's population are religious, and many live in religious states. Thus, religion-compatible campaigning is vital to achieving true acceptance among the general population, and especially in those places that are more religious as more basic LGBT rights are violated there.
1.2.5.4.1.3. Pro: It's important for LGBT people themselves, many of whom were also brought up in faith, and should not be told that their identity is incompatible with their religion. Whether or not religion is true, or their identity is inherent, you believe that both of those things are true and are a part of you - and you ought not be forced to sacrifice one community for another.
1.2.5.4.1.3.1. Pro: Religion is often an important axis of social interaction and organisation too - for example, religion is the basis of social networks and determines your in-group. For immigrants, their \(often minority\) religion is a centre of congregation that allows them to find similar individuals in their new country of residence. If people are excluded from religion, they also lose out on lots of social benefits and that is a large harm.
1.2.5.4.1.3.2. Pro: Individuals who are LGBT but feel that their sexuality or gender cannot be reconciled with their faith, or that others might not accept them, are also more likely to remain in the closet. This is harmful.
1.2.5.4.1.3.2.1. Pro: Remaining closeted means that you are less likely to be able to find support networks, e.g. other LGBT people in your community or access to LGBT-specific resources such as charities, nightlife, safe spaces and so on.
1.2.5.4.1.3.2.2. Pro: This is harmful in and of itself because many people who are closeted feel that this is a huge mental burden. It necessitates policing your behaviour and interaction, and either trading off personal fulfilment and acceptance \(e.g. performing an assigned gender or maintaining celibacy\) or doing so in secret, constantly worried that people are going to find out and there will be consequences.
1.2.5.4.1.3.2.3. Pro: Having to remain in the closet also increases the chances that when your gender identity or sexual orientation does become public, it happens in a way that is not on your terms. This robs individuals of agency and makes coming out more emotionally fraught processes, often tied to feelings of shame and betrayal, that can be emotionally traumatising.
1.2.5.4.1.3.2.3.1. Pro: Likewise, emotionally charged confrontations often end in damaging ways because people are not as calm as they might otherwise be, and because the LGBT individual lacks agency in the situation and is unable to plan for different scenarios.
1.2.5.4.2. Con: It is not a prerequisite of naturalist frameworks for things to be inherent. For example, it is not inherent that people have certain personality traits, but it is nonetheless widely considered a natural part of them that people are willing to accept and accommodate.
1.2.5.4.2.1. Pro: Thus, it might be preferable to campaign on the basis that LGBT identity is 'natural' but not inherent.
1.2.6. Pro: For individuals with queerphobic families or communities, it is often important to be able to convince them of the validity of their identity in order to be able to live their lives free from fear and discomfort.
1.2.6.1. Con: Unfortunately, winning the argument over the validity of their identity often doesn't help at all in convincing those people about the validity of a LGBT+ lifestyle. The queerphobic families and communities say, in effect, "OK, we understand you're queer and can't help it because you were born that way, but you must not ever have sex or relationships, because those are sinful actions".
1.2.6.2. Pro: This enables queer individuals to persevere with attempting to inculcate tolerance or acceptance in those around them, rather than giving up and staying in the closet or moving away.
1.2.6.2.1. Pro: This is particularly important in rural or otherwise isolated areas which tend to skew homophobic, as in the absence of personal connections to queer individuals they are less likely to become more tolerant over time than other communities.
1.2.6.2.1.1. Pro: Given this, the 'born this way' narrative has longitudinal benefits in inculcating acceptance not just for those who espouse it, but also for those who come after them.
1.2.6.3. Pro: They must convince them of the validity both of their identity and of their choices.
1.2.6.3.1. Pro: 'Born this way' removes the need to convince them of an identity's validity, and whilst they will still need to argue for the validity or morality of their choices, removing one of the steps makes the task seem less insurmountable.
1.3. Pro: The 'born this way' narrative discourages abusive behaviour towards LGBT people.
1.3.1. Con: Emphasizing that it is a genetic predisposition opens the door for a "cure" using gene therapy.
1.3.1.1. Con: Heterosexuality is also a genetic predisposition.  The argument is less about genetic predisposition and more about what is considered an acceptable societal norm. By this argument, heterosexuality could also be treated, and theoretically considered a necessary treatable condition.
1.3.2. Pro: Without a 'born this way' narrative [conversion therapy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conversion_therapy), which is [abuse](https://www.psychologytoday.com/gb/blog/the-thing-feathers/201801/conversion-therapy-isnt-therapy-all), appears a more reasonable option.
1.3.3. Pro: The loss of 'born this way' adds fuel to the idea that exposure to certain media could change someone's sexual orientation.
1.4. Con: -> See 1.2.4.
1.5. Pro: There is [increasing evidence](https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/guest-blog/is-homosexuality-a-choice/) that there may be [some genetic basis](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/261/5119/321) for sexual orientation.
1.5.1. Pro: The notion that sexual desires are often formed and expressed due to factors other than socialisation is one potential reason why same-sex attraction has been observed throughout history and across the world.
1.5.1.1. Con: It is considered inappropriate by many historians to project modern understandings of sexuality, and labels such as 'homosexual'/ 'bisexual' and so on, onto historical figures who didn't live with the same expectations. \([Case study: Alexander the Great](https://www.forbes.com/sites/booked/2011/02/10/alexander-the-great-gay-or-straight/#681aaaeb3447)\)
1.5.1.2. Con: The fact that it has been observed in lots of social contexts doesn't necessarily mean that it is not socialised in some way.
1.5.1.2.1. Pro: Throughout history, queer sexual expression has been [hugely variant](https://solidarity-us.org/atc/96/p1031/) across societies. This may actually therefore suggest that there is no inherence to LGB desires and activity, but rather they are all products of their environment.
1.5.1.3. Pro: [Numerous examples](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_LGBT_history) of LGBT people and non-heterosexual relationships are found throughout history.
1.5.2. Con: Even if there is, it is dangerous to pursue finding genetic causes for sexual orientation, and if the achievement of LGBT rights is predicated on the idea that people are 'born that way', it will encourage research into so-called 'gay genes' to validate that campaigning, and by extension, the rights they campaign for, as being legitimate.
1.5.2.1. Pro: It permits the pathologisation of sexual orientation, where states treat it as a disease or disorder, and pursue cures and treatments.
1.5.2.1.1. Pro: If we do eventually find a gay gene, it will be easier to use technologies to 'correct' LGBT identity, and this is dangerous in the hands of queerphobic states.
1.5.2.1.2. Con: That is hardly an issue of genetics, but rather of how people view it in the first place. People have tried to 'cure' homosexuality [before](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conversion_therapy#History). It is not even unlikely that such things have occurred many centuries ago if the society was not accepting of homosexuality. You don't need to know anything about medicine to attempt to cure something.
1.5.2.1.3. Con: According to the DSM-5 and the vast majority of mental health professionals around the world, queer sexual orientation is not a disease. It is not a mental illness and does not inherently negatively affect one's quality of life.
1.5.2.2. Pro: In the worst circumstances, it is possible and likely that parents may even choose to selectively abort babies on the basis of LGBT identity.
1.5.2.2.1. Pro: This constitutes a form of sexuality-motivated genocide and is morally abhorrent.
1.5.2.2.1.1. Con: Abortion of a fetus in the early stages of development is not unanimously considered equal to the murder of an human being, hence mass abortions for any reason could hardly be considered a genocide.
1.5.2.2.1.2. Con: Abortion of a fetus with a clear strong predisposition to a sexuality that'd massively decrease their chances of reproduction is morally valid for humans due to their natural interest to furthering their genes.
1.5.2.2.2. Con: This hypothetical is not a valid reason to halt scientific studies into potential biological causes of queerness.
1.5.2.3. Con: Genetics are often more complex than suggested in the media. There is almost certainly not one single 'gay gene' out there, but rather a series of markers and indicators that have marginal effects on sexual orientation, in tandem with conditioning.
1.5.2.3.1. Pro: This means that the ability of people to use the genetics of identity to oppress LGBT individuals is rather limited, as a marker that is indicative of LGBT status may not be present, or inactive, or active in different quantities, or only active in combination with other markers, and so on.
1.5.2.3.1.1. Pro: Therefore the potential benefits \(by validating that queer individuals should be accepted because their sexual orientation or gender identity is immutable\) far outweigh these risks.
1.5.2.3.1.2. Pro: Humans share a similar [epigenetic structure](https://youtu.be/4Khn_z9FPmU?t=391) with ants that can allow pregnant ants to decide if the colony needs more workers or soldiers. Homosexuals are potentially created the same genetic way, in pregnancy depending on current social structure of family circle.
1.5.2.3.2. Pro: Because of the complexities of genetics, it is unlikely that we will be able to manipulate them significantly for this purpose for decades. Thus, even if we eventually arrive at the possibility, it is likely that we will be in a more accepting place due to campaigning in the interim.
1.5.2.3.2.1. Con: Disruption of one single gene \(FucM\) makes female mice [display](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2912782/) male sexual behaviour. And we know of places in the human genome [linked to](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-017-15736-4) homosexuality in males. And with [CRISPR/cas9](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CRISPR) you can easily modify any organism on the planet, which suggests we are pretty close to being able to manipulate it.
1.5.2.3.3. Con: We cannot rely on assumptions that the manipulation of the genetics of sexual and gender identity is too complex or too far away to be potentially devastating to the LGBT community.
1.5.2.3.3.1. Pro: Breakthroughs in science are often unexpected and can be transformative. Technology like [CRISPR-Cas9](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CRISPR) \(simply put, a tool which enables efficient changes and substitutions to genomes\) was unheard of just a few years ago and now is changing the horizon of what is possible.
1.5.2.3.3.2. Con: Technologies are only dangerous insofar as they can be accessed and used by those with malign intentions.
1.5.2.3.3.2.1. Pro: Given that genetic engineering technologies are usually only available to high-end laboratories which are heavily regulated, it is unlikely that they will be used for the purpose of eliminating "gay genes".
1.5.2.3.3.2.1.1. Con: This is only true in the short term. It takes time for technologies to spread in accessibility, but with a few exceptions they almost invariably do.
1.5.2.3.3.2.1.1.1. Con: This is only a risk if LGBT rights remain static until then, which is highly unlikely. It is possible that we will be in a position where acceptance is widespread by the time that the above concerns come to fruition.
1.5.2.3.3.2.2. Con: Technologies can become dangerous accidentally.
1.5.2.3.3.2.2.1. Pro: A result published in a journal can have consequences and applications that are unpredictable to anyone.
1.5.2.3.3.2.2.2. Pro: The minute, repeated contributions of individual scientists or engineers can, when aggregated, allow technologies to arise or be used in unpredictable and potentially malign ways.
1.5.2.3.3.2.3. Con: There are plenty of explicitly anti-LGBT governments that can develop access to these technologies and may well want to use them.
1.5.2.4. Pro: If genetic LGBTQ+ markers are discovered, parents may raise their children differently on the basis that they are more likely queer which can cause conflicts of identity in questioning children.
1.5.2.5. Con: With this logic, it would be dangerous to pursue any scientific advancements if such research could be used for any political purpose. This does not make sense and it is unenforceable.
1.5.3. Pro: There is evidence that homosexual men have structural differences in the nuclei in the [brain](http://www.bu.edu/thenerve/archives/spring-2010/reviews-spring-2010/homosexuality/). Since this is biological and suggests that genetics are involved, and genes are expressed as soon as the sperm merges with an egg. They are 'born that way'.
1.5.3.1. Con: Genes are not expressed as soon as a sperm merges with an egg. Our genome contains information for all the functions our body has, but every cell type only has a subset of those functions. To achieve this only a subset of the genes is active.
1.5.3.2. Con: The fact that 'something biological' is different, does not suggest at all that genetics is involved. People with different memories have differences in the neuron nuclei, yet this does not make the memories genetic.
1.5.3.3. Pro: [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ad5Lxf_kKRU) is a french video \(english subtitles available\) that explains that homosexuality is natural \(no variation of statistics anywhere in the world\) and there might be a biological explanation.
1.5.4. Con: Human sexuality is both complicated and [poorly understood](http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/number-50-fall-2016), and scientific evidence indicates that it does not match the static 'born this way' narrative.
1.5.5. Con: The existence of a genetic factor in sexual orientation is not the same thing as orientation being purely biological. Almost all psychological traits have a genetic factor but we still allow that not everything about a person's mind is fixed at birth.
1.5.5.1. Con: It has to do with the level of tendency a genetic factor gives. Some factors may be very crucial and so the people will be 'born this way'.
1.5.5.2. Pro: Babies have genes, yet they physiologically cannot conceptualize sexual attraction, therefore genes alone do not dictate sexual orientation.
1.5.5.2.1. Con: Not all genealogical traits are expressed at birth. Breasts for example, don't develop until puberty.
1.5.5.2.2. Con: [Epigenetics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epigenetics), which allows for a certain set of genes be stably expressed/silenced, an essential part of development. It is been shown that environmental factors \(like what mothers eat during pregnancy\), can have an effect on the epigenetic marks that determine which genes should be on and which off  [e.g. this study](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4758803/). Therefore, aside from genes, environmental  factors applied before birth could also play a role in sexual orientation.
1.5.5.2.3. Con: Non-genetic factors may affect the development of a child in womb. This is still "born that way".
1.5.6. Con: Sexuality is likely due to a [complex interplay](https://www.theguardian.com/science/blog/2015/jul/10/born-this-way-society-sexuality-gay-gene) of genes and the environment, potentially evolving over a lifetime.
1.5.6.1. Con: Homosexuality is not a choice or at least a conscious one; entering a homosexual relationship and being active in the queer community are choices but shouldn't be confused with the underlying feelings they represent, which can be unwanted, but can't be forced away or forced to appear.
1.5.6.2. Pro: Infants do not experience sexual attraction. And tall people aren't born tall. They are born with the predisposition to become tall later in life.
1.5.6.2.1. Con: This reasoning implies that tall people are tall because of their environment. You are born with things that don't show up until puberty, like sexual attraction.
1.5.6.2.1.1. Con: The parent claim merely suggests that inherited genetics may predispose someone to a particular trait \(like being tall\), but environmental factors can and will affect the actualization of these predispositions. For example, a person \(with a genetic predisposition to be tall\) that doesn't eat won't grow as tall as they could have.
1.5.6.2.2. Pro: Traits, like being [tall](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/how-much-of-human-height/) or [schizophrenic](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10682218), arise through a combination of genetic and environmental factors. This reasoning highlights the impact environmental variables may have on latent genetic predispositions towards a particular sexuality or gender.
1.5.7. Con: [Twin studies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biology_and_sexual_orientation#Twin_studies) suggest that homosexuality has a strong environmental component \(since a large percentage of identical twins do not share the same sexuality\). As such the "born this way" argument is over-simplified and inaccurate, and so should be avoided.
1.5.8. Pro: "Born that way" speaks to the innate nature of orientation and separates it from actions or lifestyle.
1.6. Con: Most LGBT people are not simply 'born this way'.
1.6.1. Pro: Many theorists \(eg. [Shulamith Firestone in the Dialectic of Sex, Social Structure Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dialectic_of_Sex)\) believe that sexual orientation and gender identity are socialised in response to the organisation and expectations of society.
1.6.1.1. Pro: For example, newer theoretical frameworks are demonstrating '[erotic plasticity](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10825779)' the idea that sexuality is responsive to physical surroundings and circumstances.
1.6.1.2. Pro: Sigmund Freud argued for '[innate bisexuality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Innate_bisexuality)' - that all individuals are born bisexual, and then are mostly socialised into monosexuality \(either homosexuality or heterosexuality' by society.
1.6.1.3. Pro: Furthermore, it's possible that the findings, which support inheritance, are misattributions - e.g., parental attitudes and inclinations may have a factor in whether sexual or gender experimentation is undertaken, rather than shaping gender identity itself. In this way, social factors merely permit the revelation of sexual orientation and gender identity, rather than determining it.
1.6.1.4. Pro: Modern understandings of sexuality as being 'homosexual' 'heterosexual' and so forth are relatively recent. Sociologists often argue that the binary, and the subsequent imposition of heterosexuality as the norm, [are Victorian-era social constructs](https://othersociologist.com/sociology-of-sexuality/) that were spread through colonialism.
1.6.1.4.1. Pro: In many cases, when colonial powers set up laws and governments in their former colonies, they brought laws against homosexuality with them. These norms changed over time, but many former colonies still have the 'imported' laws in place. This has perpetuated a divide between 'modern' acceptance of LGBTQ culture and 'outdated' laws along colonial lines.
1.6.1.4.2. Pro: For example, same-sex marriage was not uncommon in [parts of Africa](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/sep/09/being-gay-african-history-homosexuality-christianity), and [sculptural reliefs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hinduism_and_LGBT_topics#Religious_art) in Indian temples often depict same-sex eroticism.
1.6.2. Pro: Not all people feel that they are 'born that way', suggesting either that all people are socialised into sexuality, or that at least some people are.
1.6.2.1. Con: "Not all" is an extremely weak statement. If 1 in 1000 doesn't feel they are 'born this way', that would indicate that NOT being 'born this way' is a rare exception, not a typical experience. But it would satisfy the "not all" narrative. "Not all" is far too weak a statement to be considered a valid argument without quantification.
1.6.2.2. Pro: This writer [reports](http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20160627-i-am-gay-but-i-wasnt-born-this-way) an experience of feeling that he is gay, but not born this way.
1.6.3. Pro: Not all individuals are "born this way". There are many people who have claimed to have changed, i.e. "ex-gays".
1.6.3.1. Con: [Many](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ex-gay_movement#People_who_no_longer_support_the_ex-gay_movement) of those 'success stories' of the traumatic conversion camps latter come out, and say they were [wrong](http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/07/us/a-leaders-renunciation-of-ex-gay-tenets-causes-a-schism.html?pagewanted=all), and that they are in fact gay.
1.6.3.2. Con: [Comprehensive](http://whatweknow.law.columbia.edu/topics/lgbt-equality/what-does-the-scholarly-research-say-about-whether-conversion-therapy-can-alter-sexual-orientation-without-causing-harm/) [research](https://www.hrc.org/resources/the-lies-and-dangers-of-reparative-therapy) concludes that "it is unlikely that individuals will be able to reduce same-sex attractions or increase other-sex sexual attractions" via conversion therapy. Therefore, even though some people may claim to be "ex-gays", research does not really support that [notion](https://www.livescience.com/50453-why-gay-conversion-therapy-harmful.html).
1.6.4. Pro: There is a vast difference between 'born that way', and a completely personal choice. With innumerable variables shaping culture and expectations during the human experience it is very difficult to narrow exactly what the root cause of a preference, thought, or feeling is.
1.6.4.1. Pro: Along the spectrum from strict [evolutionary psychology](https://www.sciencedaily.com/terms/evolutionary_psychology.htm) to strict [queer theory](https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/722/12/) exists an answer, but a narrative of acceptance of individuals would probably go further than a narrative based on birth.
1.6.5. Pro: The idea that individuals have inherent sexuality requires you to also believe that gender is inherent, and it is not.
1.6.5.1. Pro: This is because if there is no inherent gender, and it is instead a series of socialised behaviours, then sexual preference exclusively for one or some genders also cannot be inherent, and must also be taught.
1.6.5.1.1. Pro: Gender is not inherent to individuals.
1.6.5.1.1.1. Pro: Gender expression, identity and the construct of gender have varied massively over time and across societies. It is shallow in scope to assume that how we construct gender is how humans have always constructed gender.
1.6.5.1.1.2. Pro: Gender identity changes for individuals - there are lots of people who feel gender fluidity, suggesting that their gender is not immutable.
1.6.5.1.1.3. Pro: Most modern discourse on trans rights says that gender is not related to the presence of sexual organs. The extension of that is that gender is also inherently divorced from other 'inherent' traits about one's biology.
1.6.5.1.1.4. Con: Children feel dysphoria from very young ages, before much social conditioning could take place, suggesting there is something non-social about gender identity.
1.6.5.2. Con: But the idea that gender is inherent to individuals does not require one to also believe that sexuality is inherent.
1.6.5.2.1. Pro: Many trans people and trans advocates argue, while differentiating gender from sex, that gender is inherent and particularly that THEIR gender is inherent, for not applying a BTW narrative to their experience would undermine transgender advocacy.
1.6.5.2.2. Pro: Because many transgender people for many years of their lives know the phenomenon of feeling and experiencing themselves one way internally and acting and interacting with the world, not always unhappily, another way externally, trans people and advocates are significantly more likely to affirm the fluidity and changeability of sexuality than LGB people and advocates are.
1.6.5.2.3. Pro: Although sexuality may be perceived often as an issue of desire, which therefore lends itself to changeability, gender is perceived, by both advocates and detractors of LGBT+ rights, more often as an issue of identity, which therefore lends itself to fixity even over the course of a long lifetime.
1.6.5.2.4. Con: Then the idea of transgenderism is completely undermined if transgenderism contains the notion that people can have more than one gender, one or more of which may not be inherent to a given person identifying as trans.
1.6.5.2.5. Con: Then advocates of sexual minorities have more justification for their claims than trans advocates or advocates of all LGBT+ people do, which results in arbitrary privileging of LGB people and identities over others and ultimately undermines even LGB advocacy.
1.6.5.3. Con: There is strong [evidence](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25667367) that gender identity is inherent. Additionally, sexual orientation and gender identity are not the same. There is no required link between the two. Also, gender roles and gender identity are different concepts as well.
1.6.5.4. Con: Sexuality regards sex, which is inherent, not gender.
1.6.5.4.1. Con: This is confusing sexuality and sexual orientation. Sexuality means what turns someone on \(sex acts\). Sexual orientation means what genders someone is attracted to \(men, women\). Since gender is believed to be socially constructed, so are sexual orientations such as lesbian, gay, bisexual. For LGBT people to be "born this way" would require gender, not sex, to be inherent, and that's far from clear.
1.6.6. Pro: Sexuality is much more fluid than many people give it credit for.
1.6.6.1. Pro: Male bi-sexuality in ancient Rome and Greece was [prevalent](https://www.thoughtco.com/standard-roman-sexuality-112735) but they were not significantly genetically different from people today.
1.6.6.2. Pro: As we see the acceptance of \(relatively\) non-traditional sexuality grow, the number of people who identify as LGBT grows along with it. This, as with any behavioral trend, can be explained better by social and cultural means than by biological ones.
1.6.7. Con: In interviews of LGBT people, particularly the ones who had hard times because of their sexual orientation due to family / society etc., they often claim that they had these feelings from early childhood.
1.6.7.1. Con: Birth and early childhood are not the same thing.
1.6.7.1.1. Con: Early age is an aproximation to the "blank slate" state. Since people do not generally exhibit gender identity or sexuality right after birth it is quite difficult to pinpoint any signs in this stage of development.
1.6.7.2. Con: It's meaningless to claim "many LGBT people had these feelings in early childhood" without anything to compare it against. What if it turned out that 75% of the population had feelings like that, but only 10% of them ended up as LGBT in adult life? But we're unlikely ever to be able to put figures to this, because most parents would object to attempts to measure early signs of sexuality in very small children, on the large scale that would be needed to get a representative cross-section.
1.6.7.3. Pro: The narrative that sexual orientation was fixed from childhood does make it easier for others to understand - because it means that it is not a conscious choice, rather it is very similar to being heterosexual.
1.6.8. Con: A new study in fact shows that there is extremely compelling evidence that being transgender is from [birth](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-017-17563-z).
1.6.9. Con: The [Kinsey scale](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kinsey_scale) seems to suggest that we are all at some level or other along the scale of sexuality even if it's one of the extremes. If you are born straight there is no reason why you can't also be born gay or anywhere between those poles.
1.6.10. Pro: -> See 1.5.4.
1.6.11. Pro: The sentiment that homosexual attraction is only acceptable when a person has no choice is biphobic.
1.7. Pro: 'Born this way' is the most effective narrative to campaign on.
1.7.1. Pro: The message is a simple one. When engaging with mass, uninformed publics, particularly in modern contexts where attention is an increasingly scarce commodity, simplicity of message is important to ensure that it is internalised.
1.7.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.6.7.3.
1.7.1.2. Con: An equally simple, powerful message would be "sexuality is a choice, and you should accept people's choices."
1.7.1.2.1. Con: There is evidence that sexuality is not a choice. If it was a choice, people with homophobic parents could simply choose not to be gay; however, they can't.
1.7.1.2.2. Con: This message isn't equally simple, and it's difficult to back up with proof. A better message might be "whether or not sexuality is a choice, people deserve respect for who they are."
1.7.2. Pro: Legislatures and judiciaries usually skew conservative, as they are likely to be primarily composed of individuals from the most powerful groups in society. Campaigning which appeals to more conservative groups is therefore the key to achieving legislative protection for LGBT identities.
1.7.2.1. Pro: When LGBTQ rights are supported by citizens from all political parties, it is much easier to pass legislation protecting the rights of LGBTQ citizens. This happens both directly, through [conservative-backed campaigns](https://thenewtropic.com/conservatives-right-side-equality/), and indirectly, through voting in representatives who support legislative protections.
1.7.3. Con: The identities that are protected most by the 'born this way narrative' are those which analogise most easily to cis heterosexuality. These same identities have been traditionally less vulnerable. As a result, gay and lesbian relationships are validated, whilst bisexuals/pansexuals and the trans* community must fight much harder for recognition.
1.7.3.1. Pro: 'Born this way' groups together individuals with disparate identities and instrumentalises those identities for the sole purpose of achieving political change. In doing so, future social progress for identities to which the 'born this way' narrative does not apply is more difficult to achieve.
1.7.3.1.1. Con: The only way in which LGBT groups can succeed or ever have succeeded in winning protection and acceptance is by these means. Alone, identity groups are not powerful enough to make change; together, they can.
1.7.3.2. Con: If the alternative is no protection for any non-cisheterosexual identity group, then this is better.
1.7.3.2.1. Con: Historically, groups that have become emancipated or protected through law have often been unhelpful to more marginalised parts of the community. Otherwise privileged gay men, having achieved many goals of equality, often vote conservatively or simply ignore the needs of other individuals with more marginalised identities.
1.7.3.2.1.1. Pro: Given this, it is better not to act in ways that allow one marginalised group to emancipate themselves at the expense of others within their community.
1.7.3.2.2. Pro: First, it is better because the protection of identities allows LGBT people to live in peace and act out their preferences without fear of discrimination or other infringements upon their autonomy.
1.7.3.2.2.1. Pro: This puts those people in a better position to provide support and campaign for the rights of more marginalised LGBT individuals.
1.7.3.3. Pro: This is a problem not just from the perspective that it increases the relative inequality between different parts of the community, but also because it means that gays and lesbians do not need to continue to provide support for more marginalised groups, as most of their aims have been \(nominally\) achieved.
1.7.4. Pro: -> See 1.1.5.
1.7.5. Pro: The "born this way" narrative is particularly important in reaffirming trans identities.
1.7.5.1. Pro: By pushing for it in campaigning, it helps to defend them from the transphobic language most commonly used to abuse them; and centres your innate sense of self as the primary lens through which we should view and affirm identity.
1.8. Con: Using the phrase 'born this way' may not be the best way to engage people with the LGBT movement.
1.8.1. Pro: "Born this way" could be misinterpreted as sexualising children, when seeking to educate conservative society on LGBT identity rights it is probably best to avoid reference to children when said audience is struggling with mental pictures of gay sexual relations.
1.8.2. Pro: Some people just do not believe that LGBT are 'born this way', so they might not be convinced by this narrative.