Discussion Title: Should Inheritance Be Minimized to Create an Equal Outset for Everyone?

1. Inheritance should be minimized to create an equal outset for everyone.
1.1. Con: Family businesses will find it difficult to secure their children as successors if they are not allowed to inherit the business.
1.1.1. Pro: If a family company has been built historically, it would be a shame to destroy what has been honed and created over potentially decades of family work.
1.2. Pro: Increased equality brings net social and economic benefits to the population as a whole. [www.ted.com](https://www.ted.com/talks/richard_wilkinson)
1.3. Pro: The surplus in tax income can be used to increase the living conditions of the majority of people.
1.3.1. Con: Or potentially squandered in bureaucracy.
1.4. Con: It is unfair to remove somebody's life work and earnings.
1.4.1. Pro: People are entitled to what they earn, as they gain ownership over the money through their work.
1.4.1.1. Pro: In a world where lives are entirely dictated by work and money, it is only fair to allow people to keep hold of it when they have worked for it.
1.4.1.2. Con: Part of that ownership is attributable to work but most can be attributed to luck: born in a certain country, at a certain time, with certain genes, in a certain family, etc.
1.4.1.3. Con: Heirs did not directly perform the work to earn this hypothetical money as it is passed down in an estate.
1.4.2. Con: It is more unfair for people to be born into unequal footing as a result of how what their parents accomplished.
1.4.2.1. Con: All people are born into unequal situations. Inheritance is only relevant once the parents have passed away; most such children would be brought up however the parents wish and not receive inheritance until potentially their late 40s or beyond.
1.4.3. Pro: Many of those who have large quantities to hand down do so over years of scrupulous money management and savings; it is unfair to undermine that work.
1.4.4. Pro: Many consider taxation immoral.
1.5. Con: Your own economical welldoing will be nullified.
1.5.1. Con: Wealth would be differently distributed and spent, but the economic status would still ultimately be the same.
1.6. Con: The rich will find ways to circumvent the regulation for example by giving it away during their lifetime or creating a foundation.
1.6.1. Con: We need to tighten up and change the legal framework that allows the rich to continue to avoid taxes that the majority have to pay and that society believes is fair to pay.
1.6.1.1. Con: It isn't only the rich; middle classes would also be seriously adversely affected by such measures. There is no way of making such a system fair or reasonable.
1.6.2. Pro: The economy will be seriously affected in the long run because of old people spending their savings before they die.
1.6.2.1. Pro: The economical boost will help people climb the ladder further.
1.6.2.1.1. Con: Not necessarily; this assumes the taxed money will be spent helping equal the playing field for those starting out. This isn't always true.
1.6.2.2. Con: Where there's nothing to inherit no tax can be collected.
1.6.3. Con: This assumes that the current power relation of humans is akin to a fact of nature rather than an arbitrary social arrangement which can be challenged. It assumes that the freedom and right of the rich to exploit the poor is supreme compared to the freedom and right of the poor to collectively regulate \(via say the democraric state system\) the rich for the greater freedom of the many.
1.6.4. Con: This is not a bad thing. If wealthy people donate their money to charity, even if it is to avoid taxes, this is generally accepted as a good thing.
1.7. Con: Inheritance and saving are the only reasonable way to achieve long term economic equality. Ceasing those practices denies the principle of capital accumulation and investment over time, which levels the poverty index from above.
1.8. Pro: Everybody needs to do their best to accomplish something in life.
1.8.1. Con: This has no bearing on inheritance.
1.8.2. Pro: Having a massive handout makes it easier for people to coast through life without needing to try overly hard; this is far from character building.
1.8.3. Con: This depends on what is meant by 'accomplish'. Having money is not the only way to have accomplished something in one's life. As such, inheritance is an irrelevant concern.
1.9. Pro: People will stop being as greedy as they are as money does not serve them after death.
1.9.1. Con: It does, however, serve those they love.
1.9.2. Con: It would make people in their lifetimes greedy as they cannot save for their children, so spend everything they can in their lifetimes.
1.10. Con: People could be less effective during their lifetime as their work does not have a direct impact on future generations.
1.10.1. Pro: There is no incentive to save money or work hard when one knows it'll all be taken away immediately on death.
1.10.2. Con: Money can still be freely spent while living; it just changes how people choose to live their lives.
1.10.3. Con: Their work/savings will go to charity or the state for future generations, and will help people out of the mentality that anyone outside my close relations is an “other”. Co-operation is a group level selection in our evolution and larger and more co-operatively effective groups will outcompete and integrate the ones that rely only on individual level self-interest incentives. Reframing the incentive structure thus will be beneficial \(in effect this is wht patriotic sacrificial ideologies do\).