Discussion Title: Should Governments Set Prices for Goods and Services?

1. Governments should set prices for goods and services.
1.1. Pro: Allows better planning of budgets for flow through products.
1.2. Pro: Allows minimum wage increases to mean something.
1.2.1. Con: Minimum wages cannot increase when companies don't sell their goods at an increased price.
1.2.2. Con: Employers have to pay the higher wages, therefore they have to get the money to do so from the consumer.
1.3. Con: If the price of a product is locked by government, the market cannot respond to a change in prices for the raw materials or labour required to create that product, which has serious negative repercussions for the economy.
1.3.1. Pro: If prices get too high and the government wants private business to continue selling the product at a loss so that the public have access, they need to subsidise this business by taking money from the taxpayers.
1.3.1.1. Pro: This is a form of theft and is an anti-competitive policy rife in the failed states of communism.
1.4. Con: Society, nature and the economy are complex interdependent systems that sometimes create unpredictable emergent patterns. Fixing prices will have [negative consequences](https://www.forbes.com/sites/econostats/2017/10/12/price-controls-will-reduce-innovation-and-health-outcomes/#4827dd2c63a6) as the systems adapt e.g. eroding innovation, productivity and economic activity. Leading to job losses and lower competitiveness - a slow process of transferring those price-controlled sectors to foreign competitors in the longer term. Only good for populist politicians to get votes as they will be long gone in the long run.
1.5. Pro: Prevents inflation of prices due to "supply and demand".
1.5.1. Con: Supply and demand are best to find the correct price of a given item or service.
1.5.1.1. Pro: The, so-called, [Law of Demand](https://www.investopedia.com/university/economics/economics3.asp) helps potential new producers decide whether to enter or leave the market depending on the demand their products will have.
1.6. Con: There is the potential to run out of supply to meet the demand.
1.6.1. Pro: New producers won't enter the market because the prices are fixed.
1.7. Pro: Allows people to purchase goods/services even at lower income.
1.7.1. Con: Overconsumption is already a problem.
1.8. Pro: Promotes economic activity by making goods/services more affordable.
1.9. Con: There is the potential that employers will cut staff to maintain their excessive profits.
1.10. Con: It has the potential to cause smaller businesses to close due to costs.