Discussion Title: Should we care about how we look?

1. Should we care about how we look?
1.1. Pro: People with beautiful looks tend to be more [successful.](https://www.businessinsider.com/attractive-people-are-more-successful-2012-9?IR=T)
1.1.1. Con: This is an effect of the tendency of people caring about how other people look, not a cause or a reason for it.
1.2. Con: People are unfairly and incorrectly judged for how they look. If we care about our looks, this is reinforced.
1.3. Pro: People can use appearance for pride, self expression, and identity.
1.4. Con: Caring about looks promote prejudice, which should be prevented
1.5. Pro: Taking care of your appearance, keeping yourself healthy and clean/neat looking at all cases promotes self discipline, self confidence, and better headspace.
1.6. Con: There are many things about individual appearance that cannot be controlled.
1.6.1. Pro: Birth defects cannot be controlled by an individual
1.6.2. Pro: Many people lack the financial ressources to alter their body in a positive way.
1.7. Pro: Appearance can signal things like health, danger, and fertility which are imprtant for safety and reproduction.
1.7.1. Con: Many of the 'signals' people derive from appearance are misguided or harmful, for example the [tendency](https://www.vox.com/identities/2018/5/11/17340908/racial-profiling-starbucks-yale-police-violence-911-bias) of white people to perceive black people as dangerous.
1.8. Con: The beauty and fashion industry propagate insecurity, specifically in women.
1.8.1. Con: This is an argument against the beauty and fashion industry exploiting our tendency to care about how we look, not about the problem with the tendency itself.
1.8.1.1. Con: In a capitalist society, people's tendency to care about how they look will always be exploited in this way. Only by abandoning the tendency can it be avoided.
1.9. Con: Caring about appearance furthers tribalism.
1.9.1. Pro: Preoccupation with external physical attributes is the premise which underlies racism and other forms of bigotry.
1.10. Pro: We cannot control the evolutionary instinct to judge other peoples, and thus, our own appearances.
1.10.1. Pro: "You're not the master of your own house," said Freud, referring to the sub- and unconscious parts of our mind. According to the [triune brain model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triune_brain), our brain can be simplified into three parts: the reptillian, the mammalian and the neo-mammalian \(or human\) brain. The last one is responsible for most of the processes we consider rational, which is very small and have only been along for a short while compared to the other. Our rationality is sacred to us, but it is not exclusive in our brain.
1.11. Pro: There is aesthetic and cultural value in appearance.
1.11.1. Con: No examples offered as to what aesthetic and cultural value in appearance might be.
1.11.2. Pro: Regarding the "value" in appearance I take the liberty to assume it's the differences in appearance and the hierarchy of appearance traits that are referred to. It's good to have such differences, in terms of genetic variation, and it's better to note and accept each others' differences than pretend to ignore them. For most of the origin of homo sapiens, it has been tribal, and we thus often think semi-tribally unconsciously. Our preferences are often not chosen, but programmed unconsciously.