Discussion Title: Should Culture be Supported by the State?

1. Culture should, if necessary, be supported by the State.
1.1. Con: The state should not force its citizens to pay for non-essential goods, it should be their decision to support culture.
1.1.1. Con: This depends entirely on your perception of 'non-essential'.
1.1.2. Pro: Culture is everywhere, regardless of government intervention; it should be allowed to continue flourishing without interference.
1.1.3. Con: Cultural values have their own value, are durable and lift the state above a simple comunity of people.
1.1.4. Con: When a state reaches to point where culture can be supported, then its economy is good enough for the people to afford and, most importantly, enjoy it.
1.2. Con: The state does not have the moral power to define what is defined as culture and what is not.
1.2.1. Con: It is not necessary to exclude certain activities from the definition of culture for the state to provide funding for certain activities that are part of culture.
1.3. Pro: Supporting culture allows for easier/cheaper access to it, diminishing social inequalities.
1.3.1. Pro: When cultural venues such as theatres receive government subsidies, ticket prices are often substantially reduced, particularly for students and young people.
1.3.2. Con: There are and have always been plenty of culture available for free for everyone. Especially nowadays, when majority of people have access to all the tools necessary to take part in all forms of cultural creation. Free community-based events and projects are also easier than ever to organize, thanks to communication technologies.
1.3.2.1. Con: What can be referred to as 'high culture' - ballet, shows, opera - are almost always unaffordable.
1.4. Con: It is impossible to measure, and therefore unfair to provide different players with different state subsisdies.
1.4.1. Pro: Subsidies are usually delivered based on criteria created by government institutions, effectively censoring-out all culture that doesn't fit in the criteria.
1.5. Con: Culture is not easily defined.
1.5.1. Pro: Mainstream culture is not objectively worse than classical or erudite culture, and is widely spread and needs no state sponsorship.
1.5.2. Con: It can be defined in a certain sphere of action. One country can be defined by its values, traditions, ideas, artists differently than another.
1.5.3. Con: [According to UNESCO](http://www.unesco.org/new/en/social-and-human-sciences/themes/international-migration/glossary/cultural-diversity/), culture is a complex whole that includes knowledge, beliefs, arts, morals, laws, customs, and any other capabilities and habits acquired by a human as a member of society.
1.6. Pro: Culture and the consumption of cultural means allow for a higher kind of pleasure and everyone should be able to try it, regardless of social background.
1.6.1. Con: Everyone willing are already able to enjoy and participate in most domains of culture free-of-charge.
1.7. Pro: Culture can be shared among different social classes and therefore contribute to social cohesion.
1.7.1. Pro: Culture can contribute, by being trans-national, to form bonds between countries and contribute to cooperation/deter aggression.
1.8. Con: State-subsidized culture creates unfair competition for independent, privately-funded or self-funded artists. The centralized State can use mass marketing channels and state-funded venues to forcibly push subsidized content upon the mass public, to a certain extent pushing independent culture out of the public eye.
1.8.1. Pro: Equally, many contemporary cultural agents are much too biased towards political agendas, which is pervasive to the ends state subsidies should be used for and for the goal itself of promoting culture.
1.8.2. Con: There are situations where the state takes up this action, yet has not the best competence to carry it through. Many independent museums, artists, are doing better than state funded cultural projects. Ex the Art museum in Sibiu, Romania is particulary funded and is one of the best ones in the country
1.9. Pro: In capitalist societies, activities that are not profit making but still valid can require government assistance to thrive.
1.10. Pro: Done well, it has economical and spiritual benefits. Economical benefits would start with tourist attractions to art museums that have unique pieces and spiritual benefits would mean people would be more proud of their own culture and would feel more close to their countries essence.