Discussion Title: Should Restraints be Used in Adolescent Psychiatric Inpatient Treatment?

1. Restraints are valid to use in adolescent psychiatric inpatient treatment.
1.1. Con: Adolescent patients are not able to make legal decisions on their own; assent must come from their parents. It is time-consuming to explain in detail, and so it may not be practical to suggest restraints.
1.1.1. Con: Practicality is not the more vital concern; such things can be worked around. The real issue is the moral and ethical concerns.
1.1.2. Con: All aspects of psychiatric care are difficult to explain, including medication and potential side-effects. Parents will have to cope.
1.2. Pro: When adolescent patients have some violent behaviors, use of restraint is necessary and prevention of further harm to themselves or others is in their best interests.
1.3. Pro: Sometimes patients just cannot control themselves. The use of restraint is acceptable as long as as it is explained to patients that it is a protective measure, and inform their parents as well. Once the patient calms down, they should understand that their autonomy is still being respected.
1.3.1. Pro: If the patient gives consent \(and is considered able to do so\) then there is no problem using restraints.
1.4. Con: It would be better to decrease the use of restraint since it puts great physical and psychological burdens on the patients. There are other management techniques that we could adopt to lessen the harm to the patients.
1.4.1. Pro: Restraint can also be experienced as ‘[retraumatising’](https://www.nationalelfservice.net/social-care/safeguarding/impact-physical-restraint-mental-health/), resulting in dehumanisation, fear and distress.
1.4.2. Pro: Adolescents' body might be more sensitive to adversal effects of restraints, since their growth has not ended yet.
1.5. Con: Restraints can hardly be ethically justified in patient care. Even though we have assents from parents or guardians, the restraint itself contributes to a violation of patients' autonomy.
1.5.1. Con: If the patient is objectively dangerous, especially to others, the temporary removal of autonomy is acceptable. The right to autonomy is conditional.
1.6. Pro: Restraints do not pose any harm to the patients, and so there should be no hesitation in using them where necessary.
1.6.1. Con: The casual obstruction of liberty could be considered "harmful" if used too liberally.
1.7. Pro: It makes clinical work easier for professionals involved: restraints can be used when a patient is agitated in order to prevent any further trouble.
1.7.1. Con: The foundation of this claim is that it is acceptable to inconvenience the patient in order to make the psychiatrist's work more convenient. This assessment that the condition of the patient is less important than the condition of the psychiatrist is fundamentally opposed to the principles of healthcare and treatment.
1.7.1.1. Con: When dealing with immensely challenging patients, sometimes the convenience of the physician has to be considered in order for them to work properly and make better clinical choices.