Discussion Title: Should Men Be Able To Take a Stand In The Abortion Debate?

1. Men should be able to vote in the abortion debate.
1.1. Pro: It is important to not revoke the right of men to vote on this because the father definitely has a right to influence and make decisions about his unborn child.
1.1.1. Pro: Fetuses carry 50% of men's genetic material - so they should have a say in it. Some kids that are not aborted end up in orphanages - which everyone pays fors. That said, it can be argued that in some cases women are left being single mothers/they have a right to choose what to do with their own body. So perhaps giving men a given percentage of a full vote based on a multivariate analysis would be a rational solution.
1.1.1.1. Con: The phrase "the woman's body" is biologically untenable. There are two people involved and it is not part of the mother that is killed.
1.1.1.1.1. Con: This assumes that the foetus is at a stage of development where it is any more than potential, which generally is untrue at the point of a given abortion.
1.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Most abortions happen after eight weeks, when babies have all of their organs and limbs in place.
1.1.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Organs and limbs do not make a person.
1.1.1.1.1.2. Con: Personhood is not defined by physical traits.
1.1.1.1.1.2.1. Con: If a foetus is not at a stage of independent thought, motion or life, then it is not a person. It is a growth.
1.1.1.1.2. Con: 'Personhood' is a debatable factor with regards to foetal matter. Until quite an advanced stage, when they can survive independent of the woman's body, they are little more than developing tissue, not capable of personhood.
1.1.1.1.2.1. Con: Personhood is not defined by a physical trait. "Independent survival" is as arbitrary as picking skin color to determine personhood.
1.1.2. Pro: Baby men are being aborted too. Men ought to get a vote.
1.1.3. Pro: Men are affected by the consequences of the results.
1.1.3.1. Pro: The pain of losing a child through abortion is the same for the father as it is for the mother.
1.1.4. Pro: There are cases of children being aborted against the wishes of the father. This can cause life-long guilt and disharmony in relationships.
1.1.4.1. Pro: Men and women depend on each other \(directly or indirectly\) in order to have children, therefore, both sides should have an equal say. The fact that the cost is higher for women doesn't mean that men should be shunned. It means they should make up for it in supporting the pregnant woman who carrying *their* baby.
1.1.4.1.1. Con: They should, but it's not always the case.
1.1.5. Con: It is not "his" unborn child so much as a part of the mother until it has been born. It is wrong to claim ownership of something that is inside someone else's body.
1.1.5.1. Pro: Fatherhood \(such as motherhood\) is not a matter of ownership, but of responsibility. If a man gets a woman pregnant, he must be held accountable for the child in every step of the way.
1.1.5.1.1. Con: The issue is that many men do not take this responsibility.
1.1.5.2. Con: A baby is biologically not their mother. Half the time, the baby is a male. All of the time, they have their own DNA.
1.2. Pro: Every person, despite their gender, should be able to give their opinion about something that concerns the whole society.
1.2.1. Con: Abortion doesn't concern the whole society, just half of it. It only concerns women because they have to undergo the pregnancy.
1.2.1.1. Con: Fathers are biologically invested in their offspring, even if it is not their body carrying the child.
1.2.1.2. Pro: Men may contribute, but the physical repercussions are all the woman's. Trying to carry a pregnancy to term is in no way equitable to a man's involvement in the process.
1.2.1.3. Con: Abortion concerns the whole society because pregnancy concerns the whole society. Female pregnancy is the only way to bring forth new life \(by now\).
1.2.1.4. Con: Given that it's a father's child too, men should have a say whether women, irrespective of men's wishes, should be allowed to abort a child.
1.2.2. Pro: Limiting a moral debate to one half of the population increases the likelihood of bias.
1.2.2.1. Pro: Discounting a subgroup’s opinion on an issue that disproportionately affects another subgroup is counter-productive and divisive. Society can be deconstructed in this manner recursively until only a handful of maximally impacted constituents are relevant to the issue at hand. Only homeless people get to vote on vagrancy laws. Only coal miners from Appalachia get to weigh in on mountaintop removal regulations. Only women who have had abortions can vote on abortion law. Reductio ad absurdum.
1.2.2.1.1. Con: This is not about voting but giving an opinion.
1.2.3. Pro: A considerable percentage of the population \(including women\) believe that abortion is a human rights issue, not a women's rights issue.
1.2.4. Pro: Those who view abortion as wrong see it as murder. Women ought not be the only ones to have a say on the legality of ending a life.
1.2.4.1. Pro: Voting on morally objectionable matters is itself immoral. People are not justified in voting on whether murder should be allowed. Some people say that abortion is murder. If it is, people should not be allowed to vote on abortion issues.
1.2.4.1.1. Pro: There is a dictionary trail through the definitions of [murder](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/murder), [person](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/person), [fetus](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/fetus) and[abortion](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/abortion) that indicates "abortion is murder" to be an objectively accurate statement. Summed up with [this image](https://goo.gl/images/Xpihuz).
1.2.4.1.1.1. Con: Equally, [abortion](https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/abortion) can be formally defined less emotively as "The deliberate termination of a human pregnancy". Dictionary definitions are not the best metric for moral judgements on abortion.
1.2.4.2. Con: The problem comes from the starting premise that abortion is murder, that a fetus is a baby. This argument only works if one already assumes those things.
1.2.4.3. Pro: No one should be forced to contribute to what they believe is murder, as is the case whenever tax dollars are allowed to be used to fund the activity they believe is murder.
1.2.4.3.1. Con: Tax dollars are paid to the state and the state then chooses what to use the funds for and in what distribution, including roads, infrastructure, welfare, incentive schemes, education, state employee salaries, etc. No private citizen is personally funding anything the state pays for any more than your employer is personally responsible for your grocery shopping.
1.2.5. Pro: That you are not involved does not mean you should be excluded. A person without a driver's license can have an opinion on speeding and traffic danger. Similarly with abortion.
1.2.5.1. Con: Speeding and traffic can put people's lifes at risk. Pregnancy can be dangerous too. Abortion is way less.
1.2.6. Pro: Some consider gender a fluid open concept that is up to one's own personal decision. As such, men can be women just as well as women are when they are in the voting booth.
1.2.6.1. Con: The primary difference is that female biology allows her to become pregnant which is a greater cost than ejaculation.
1.2.7. Pro: In a democracy is everyone equal, despite your gender. Everyone should be given a voice.
1.2.7.1. Con: In the same way that those under sixteen are barred from voting, some people may not have the requisite age, knowledge or responsibility to impact legislation via voting.
1.2.7.2. Pro: In a democracy, all those eligible to vote should have the opportunity to vote. This is not the same as suggesting that "in a democracy everyone is equal." The 8th Amendment disproportionately, indeed entirely harms women who should rightly be given the choice of whether to bear children.  Catholic doctrine, determined entirely by men, should have no bearing on the debate.
1.3. Con: Women who are not able to bear children should also be excluded from being able to vote on abortion rights. This should include those who are too old, naturally infertile and chemically infertile.
1.3.1. Con: Older women who are no longer fertile should not be excluded as they offer a perspective on the subject that fertile women do not have, namely having completed the experience of being fertile. Their input is vital.
1.3.2. Pro: That also includes women who does not want to have children.
1.3.2.1. Con: It's stopping the debate, excluding people who would precisely benefit from abortion.
1.4. Con: The abortion debate gives rights to women. They should be able to decide about their own bodies, and men can't know what it's like to be pregnant.
1.4.1. Pro: Women can decide for their own, without men interfering.
1.4.2. Con: In that case, women should not be allowed to vote on male circumcision laws. They do not know what it is like to be circumcised.
1.4.3. Pro: It would be unfavourable for women, if men were to be given the right to vote in such an important life-changing decision concerning a woman's impact on her own life primarily. It is a woman's right to choose what to do with her own destiny.
1.4.4. Con: This implies that women that have never been pregnant should not be able to vote on the matter either.
1.4.5. Con: Based on this logic, no one alive should be able to vote since they can't know what it's like to be aborted.
1.4.6. Con: Men can, however, have a great deal of empathy and emotional investment in the issue.
1.4.7. Con: All individuals actively involved in the creation and health of the pregnancy should have a voice on whether or not the pregnancy continues. Active in this case excludes sperm donors to clinics and any other absent individuals. Men may not know what it is like to be pregnant but if they are present during the pregnancy they have a good understanding of the process.
1.4.8. Pro: Men do not contribute 50% of the effort in a pregnancy, and so should not have 50% of the say in determining its outcome.
1.4.8.1. Con: Parental rights and responsibilies to their children are considered equal under the law given that they are equally responsible for its creation. If women have an unequal say in whether a child is carried to term or aborted, then parental rights and responsibilites should be adjusted accordingly. To demand unequal rights during pregnancy then demand equal responsibility thereafter would be hypocritical.
1.4.8.2. Pro: Men would have more freedom if they stopped trying to have more power, and hence more responsibility, in a biological process that in humans is disproportionally undertaken by females.
1.4.8.2.1. Con: Pregnancy is disproportionately undertaken by females, but parenthood is a condition shared equally by both men and women - the fruition of which is dependant upon choice to abort or not.
1.4.8.3. Con: Men contribute with 50% of what it takes to get a woman pregnant.
1.4.8.3.1. Con: What takes 9 seconds for the man leads to 9 months of pregnancy for the woman - their efforts and the amount required of each partner is NOT equal.
1.4.8.4. Con: This argument is implicitly implying that men are part \(in a higher or lower degree\) on the pregnancy. Therefore, men should be able to take a stand in the abortion debate. We are not debating the degree but the sole possibility to take part on the debate.
1.4.8.4.1. Con: If men contribute less than 50% of the say in determining the outcome of the pregnancy, then women will always have the final say. In other words, men could be consulted but the decision rests with the majority partner.
1.4.8.4.1.1. Con: 'women' and 'men' are not two separate hive minds that will each vote in unison against each other. Each group will display a range of views and the majority outcome will be Co tribute to by both men and women.
1.4.9. Con: The rights given to women are at the cost of the rights of the unborn. When two rights collide like this, both must be taken into perspective - not just the woman's.
1.4.9.1. Con: If parents can't offer a good life to their child\(ren\), abortion can prevent this problem from happening.
1.4.9.2. Con: If one truly wanted to protect the rights of the fetus then they should explore ways to transfer the fetus to another womb, not overruling a woman's fundamental right to bodily autonomy.
1.4.9.3. Con: The two rights aren't "colliding," a woman is already enjoying her rights and another party, the fetus is coming along and intruding on her rights. If she voluntarily accepts this burden then all is fine, but if not then accommodation must be found in relocating the fetus, not in undermining her fundamental rights.
1.4.9.4. Con: This assumes there are rights to the unborn, which is debatable.
1.5. Pro: Men can support the opinions of their female friends by voting on the matter.
1.5.1. Pro: Gender does not determine individual ideas/positions. A man can be as much feminist as a woman.
1.5.2. Con: Men might be influenced by their friends, without fully creating an opinion of their own.
1.5.2.1. Pro: The entire concept of democracy is undermined if voting is dictated by other people.
1.5.2.2. Con: This is not a male issue, as same thing can be said about women.
1.5.3. Pro: By voting for or against abortion, men show interest in the matters that concern women.
1.5.3.1. Con: Showing interest is not the same as understanding the issue. If the question is, whether a man knows/understands enough about the issue to vote on it, then this argument is void.
1.6. Pro: It would be difficult to restrict who can vote or not, and it raises some questions with difficult answers regarding who should or should not be permitted; it would become overcomplicated and potentially discriminatory.
1.6.1. Pro: The abortion debate directly affects transgender men, who should absolutely be allowed to take a stand.
1.6.2. Pro: Are infertile women allowed to vote? Are transgender men allowed? What about trans women? It can't be based on their biological sense for obvious logistical reasons, so should it be based on their legal gender? But if it were based on their legal gender, it would prevent some people from voting who would be directly impacted by a change in policy.
1.7. Con: There is a difference between offering one's opinion in a debate, and enforcing one's views on others against their will. If women view anti-abortion laws as an involuntary interference with their bodily autonomy by men, then men should be limited to giving their opinion but barred from voting.
1.7.1. Con: By the same logic, abortion could be viewed as a violation of the bodily autonomy of the unborn child by women, and therefore women should be barred from voting. Therefore the argument is self-defeating.
1.7.2. Pro: Allowing abortion would allow women to choose not to give their body over to major physical changes, pains, and significant dangers. A man arguing that a woman must carry a fetus to term is arguing that all the risks and costs be put onto her without accepting any onto himself. It could be considered that he is advocating slavery. Merriam-Webster dictionary: 'slavery' means 'submission to a dominating influence.' Oxford dictionary, slave: 'A person who is excessively...controlled...'
1.7.3. Con: -> See 1.4.9.
1.7.4. Pro: Men can then still have a massively influential voice but not override female autonomy.
1.8. Pro: If men are to be held accountable for child-rearing, it is only logical that they are held accountable/have a say about an unborn child as well - otherwise they would have the right to refuse child support if a woman decides to have child against the father's will.
1.8.1. Pro: If a woman doesn't want to give birth, and the father can pass a background/psychological check, the father should have the right to raise the baby.
1.8.2. Con: This is feasible; perhaps men should be able to refuse child support.
1.9. Con: When the male anatomy and physiology gets a place in lawmakers' books and political points, then we can allow their stance on abortion debate.
1.9.1. Con: There are already laws relating to male circumcision, which is male anatomy specific. [circlist.com](http://circlist.com/circ-law/mainpage.html)
1.9.2. Pro: When the male anatomy has evolved so that it can also create a fetus and give birth, then the males can have a say in the abortion debate.
1.10. Con: Men do not need a political vote because they can vote with their behavior. Men who are opposed to abortion can refuse to engage in any sexual activity that risks causing an abortion \(i.e. vaginal sex with any woman who could get pregnant and is open to personally having an abortion\).
1.10.1. Con: In the same way, a woman should never have vaginal sex either if she would want to have an abortion - sex shouldn’t be restricted simply because it could lead to an abortion.
1.10.2. Con: Men may be affected by the abortion of their sibling or grandchild, in which case their suffering is personally unavoidable.
1.11. Pro: On no other issue is the electorate restricted to only those who would be most affected by the policy.