Discussion Title: Should We Be Able To Say What We Like Bar Inciting Violence?

1. We should be able to say what we like as long as we're not inciting violence
1.1. Con: Libel doesn't incite violence but can be extremely harmful to an individual's reputation.
1.1.1. Pro: It would be fundamentally damaging to our society if lies about a person's character were to be legally acceptable.
1.1.2. Con: Libel does often incite violence. Pretty much all wars are started and maintained by insulting verbal attacks on the targeted group that over time make killing them seem both easy and  even a virtue.
1.1.3. Con: Harming a person's reputation often causes direct harm to their livelihood, which is a form of violence.
1.2. Con: One has to be honest under oath even though lying wouldn't necessarily incite violence.
1.3. Con: This would presumably encompass all lying, which inhibits the amount of trust that friends and lovers can build.
1.3.1. Pro: This could also include distracting people in dangerous situations, making such speech irresponsible.
1.3.2. Con: If you treat your friends and lovers the way they feel the need to lie to you, thats on you too. In relationships there is no honest or dishonest partner, only honest and dishonest relationships, because it takes two people to build either of them.
1.3.3. Con: If people find out that a person is a liar, or has lied, they will be less likely to trust that person in the future. This creates a natural disincentive against lying without any outside interference.
1.4. Pro: Open discussion is generally a good way to avoid violence.
1.4.1. Con: Open discussion between two narrow-minded strangers can become a very volatile situation and quickly turn into a quarrel or, in the worst case, a fight.
1.4.2. Pro: Open discussion allows everybody to have some forum where their opinions can be heard equally and fairly.
1.5. Con: Civilized discussion implies an obligation to listen as well as the right to speak. Speech that is intended to drown out other voices through intimidation, repetition, or rudeness should not be protected.
1.6. Con: At present our society is not responsible enough when it comes to debate to be trusted with the ability to speak freely.
1.6.1. Con: There should be no distinction on who can speak freely, everyone should have equal rights to free speech, and any restrictions should apply to everyone..
1.6.2. Con: On the contrary, society today cannot be trusted to police which speech should be banned and which shouldn't. And the potential harm of policing speech is more than the harm of too much free speech.
1.6.3. Con: Without having responsibility, you can't become responsible. First you mist give responsibility to the people, so they can grow up to it. Not the other way around.
1.7. Pro: Regulating speech requires that someone else decides upon and implements rules for appropriate speech. There is no one perfect enough to make the right decisions about what is right and wrong to say all the time, let alone the government.
1.7.1. Pro: Speech laws are often designed to protect vulnerable groups and individuals. However, the organisations and governments which are tasked with enforcing restrictions on speech are usually controlled by the powerful and privileged. As a result, laws restricting speech can often hurt those they intend to help.
1.7.1.1. Pro: Across [Europe](https://theintercept.com/2017/08/29/in-europe-hate-speech-laws-are-often-used-to-suppress-and-punish-left-wing-viewpoints/), extensive hate speech laws were introduced to curtail bigotry on the far-right. Increasingly, those same laws are used to dissent from liberal and left-wing voices in society.
1.8. Pro: Everyone has the right to hear as many different view points as they would like. If one person's speech is silenced, then all other people lose the opportunity to hear that person.
1.8.1. Pro: If people are unable to freely speak ideas which are deemed to be harmful, they will likely still hold those ideas to be true covertly. As a result, society loses the opportunity to challenge harmful ideas while individuals may still take harmful action based on those ideas.
1.9. Pro: Thought and speech are intertwined. Limiting a person's vocabulary is one and the same as limiting their thoughts.
1.9.1. Pro: Free thought keeps ideas cheap, which they need to be to maximise innovation.
1.9.1.1. Pro: Innovation is required to maximise technological and sociological advancement, which we require to evolve as a civilisation.
1.9.1.2. Con: Even cheap ideas can exact a terrible cost.
1.9.2. Con: Some thoughts are not constructive, and the thinkers are not always willing to talk to a therapist about their issues.
1.9.2.1. Pro: Such thought control would reduce the amount of chaos in human co-operation.
1.9.2.1.1. Con: There is no precedent for an authority being trustworthy in controlling thought. There is a high risk of the power-concentration in the hands of an incompetent ruler running the human race into extinction.
1.9.2.2. Con: A paradigm of mental health improvement, such as therapy-seeking would fix the mental health issue.