Discussion Title: Should we believe that God exists, even if we're not sure it's true?

1. One should believe that God exists, even if they are not sure it's true.
1.1. Pro: Reason alone cannot determine if God exists, so if one chooses to believe in God, one does so knowing that there is a chance it is not true; everyone who believes in God surely accepts this.
1.1.1. Con: The hypothesis assumes that belief in God is beneficial, regardless of God's existence. Arguments for this hypothesis don't need to show that God exists, only that one should believe in God regardless.
1.1.1.1. Con: The previous hypothesis makes no claim or assumption in a belief being beneficial, regardless of existence. Using the substitution for "God" in the previous hypothesis can be applied to all things for any belief.
1.1.2. Con: It is not reasonable to default to belief in something just because one can't know for sure whether it exists or not. One is just as likely to be wrong as to be right.
1.1.2.1. Con: The parent is guilty of conflating epistemic uncertainty with mathematical probability. If it is the case that God's existence is probable, action may be taken. If it is epistemic uncertainty, then action is not necessarily justified.
1.1.2.2. Con: We can default in belief to various positions given the value of utility, that is one does not need to know how combustion engines work to safely drive a car, or how friction works to apply the brakes.
1.1.2.2.1. Con: You may not need to know the scientific explanation behind friction to apply the brakes of a car, but you would most certainly want to know that the brakes work before entering that vehicle. A belief in God does not require one to grasp the specifics of the supernatural, but it does imply that God "works" to begin with.
1.1.3. Pro: The existence of God is neither provable nor falsifiable.
1.1.3.1. Con: The proposition may be neither provable nor falsifiable but because the burden of proof rests on those proposing it, we can assert and prove that it is not true simply dismantling its theoretical constructs.
1.1.3.2. Con: The "unprovable" gambit only serves those who believe and restricts those who \(using the scientific process\) cannot disprove the existence of a god. This is a classic example of "your methods cannot work on a mystery like our "god" but we  choose to use elements of your methods when they support our position".
1.1.4. Con: There are many [arguments](http://www.iep.utm.edu/ont-arg/) for the existence of God. The way in which the existence of God is argued for is often by attempting to show that the universe as we observe it is inconsistent with the non-existence of a God. If this can be shown then God can be proven.
1.1.4.1. Con: This post refers to Saint Anselm's argument. While the argument succeeds in the claim that existence in greater than non-existence, Anselm's definition of God is "that which nothing greater can be conceived." This definition of God offers nothing substantial about the quality of God, whether God is a he, she, or it, whether God is conscious, amorphous, gaseous, or solid. It certainly does not prove the existence of the Judaeo-Christian God as is intended.
1.1.4.1.1. Pro: Even more, the argument doesn't work since existence is not a property and there is no reason to assert existence is greater than nonexistence.
1.1.5. Pro: Only finite losses are incurred if God doesn't exist.
1.1.5.1. Con: This makes the assumption that there is one God in which to believe, when in fact there are many religions centring around many different Gods. Knowing how to decide which God to believe in is an impossibility, making the probability of believing in the 'right' - if at all existent - God potentially very small.
1.1.5.1.1. Pro: Depending on the deity, belief in the 'wrong' God might trigger the 'right' God's wrath for one's heresy and/or apostasy.
1.1.5.1.2. Con: One could choose to believe in all Gods.
1.1.5.1.2.1. Con: The ideologies presented by different beliefs of Gods are often conflicting, therefore it would be somewhat impossible to achieve a belief in them all at once.
1.1.5.1.2.2. Con: That would be rationally impossible. Most monotheistic religious texts state that "you \(believers\) shall have no other gods before me".
1.1.5.1.3. Con: It is far more likely that they are all the same God, and we are like the parable of the [Blind men and an elephant](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blind_men_and_an_elephant), each religion represented by a different blind man.
1.1.5.2. Pro: Such a [small percentage of gamblers](https://www.gamblingsites.com/blog/7-statistics-about-gambling-you-need-to-become-familiar-with-6836/) win at any given moment. It's well-known that all gambling favors the house. If it's even possible that God is the "house", it would be regrettable to bet everything on the idea that He's not actually there.
1.1.5.2.1. Con: But the premise was not based on odds or likelihood; [Pascal](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/pascal-wager/) created this discussion to be truculent in a time when even in a philosophical debate to merely posit the idea of the non-existence of god would result in excommunication, censure or worse. He created the wager with no foreknowledge \(like e.g. looking at the "form" of a racehorse\) so there are only two, equally possible outcomes, like in the fair toss of a coin.
1.1.5.3. Con: If God does not exist and there is no afterlife, then the finite is all we have. Therefore it is foolish to waste any time on something that is false.
1.1.5.4. Con: God already does or does not exist. What happens after we die is already going to happen, nothing is 'lost' because either we get to go to heaven or we don't.
1.1.5.4.1. Con: Some people chose a religious life not for want of heaven, but out of fear of God's wrath on Earth and in hell. Because we cannot know if God is real or not we cannot be certain that nothing is lost, especially because that something is contingent on our behaviors.
1.1.6. Con: This argument assumes what it ought to be proving. The argument is "you should believe in God even if God does not exist, because people do believe in God even though they do not know if God exists". But the fact that people do this is not proof that it is wise or correct to do so.
1.2. Con: It is immoral to support immoral deities.
1.2.1. Pro: In the Bible, God [commands](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1+Samuel+15:3) genocide. It would be immoral to support belief in a god who condones mass murder.
1.2.2. Pro: The Bible commands punishing rape victims in [Deuternonomy 22: 23 - 24](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Deuteronomy+22%3A23-24&version=ESV). It is immoral to support a God who would punish the victim of a crime.
1.2.2.1. Con: Crimes are cultural/national constructs denoting a transgression of a law. Sexual relations out of wedlock was against the law at that particular time and place.
1.2.2.2. Con: This verse indicates consensual premarital sex, not rape
1.2.3. Con: Morality or the definition of the moral is subjective across different times, cultures and contexts. Something can't be immoral if it is described as moral in its own moral code.
1.2.3.1. Con: If this is true, then any moral code is as good as any other, and therefore there is no reason to privilege any one moral code over another. Therefore, there is no benefit in following one particular moral code claimed to derive from God.
1.2.4. Con: It would therefore be moral to support moral deities.
1.2.4.1. Con: To suggest this conclusion is a false dichotomy.
1.2.4.2. Con: It does not follow from the truth of the claim "it is immoral to support belief in immoral nonexistent deities" that it must also be true to say "it is moral to support belief in moral nonexistent deities".
1.3. Con: Believing in God, harms the individual. One could prioritize other activities or beliefs that would be far more beneficial.
1.3.1. Pro: A person's credibility may decrease if their beliefs are perceived as 'false' by others.
1.3.1.1. Con: One would lose more credabilty refuting god as the [majority](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irreligion) of the population is religious.
1.3.2. Pro: This creates [cognitive dissonance](http://blog.talkingphilosophy.com/?p=9261).
1.3.2.1. Pro: The confusion created from the cognitive dissonance could make decision-making difficult for a person.
1.3.2.2. Con: It does not necessarily create cognitive dissonance to believe in God; this is a question of probability, not of believing two things at once.
1.3.2.3. Pro: Cognitive dissonance is caused by the psychological battle between two conflicting ideas. In this case it is believing in a God while simultaneously knowing it does not exist.
1.3.2.4. Con: Neither the initial statement nor Pascal's wager say that a person simultaneously believes and disbelieves in god. They say that we should believe regardless of the truth value.
1.3.3. Pro: If belief suggests following tenets of a specific religion, it would mean a decrease in amount of choices that an individual could make, thus making his life more difficult.
1.3.3.1. Con: The wisdom of the religion could prevent one from making choices that are actually bad for them. Perhaps, in a way that one with their limited viewpoint cannot see. Thus those tenets could make one's life better and leave one stronger to tackle the real difficulties of life.
1.3.3.2. Con: Any choice simultaneously eliminates choices and opens other choices.
1.3.3.3. Con: Choice paralysis has been shown to cause excessive stress. It introduces undue complexity.
1.3.3.4. Con: A difficult outcome doesn't necessarily have to be a reason to 'not do something'.
1.3.4. Pro: It does not make logical sense to spend time and energy on insufficiently probable 'truths' such as God's existence when one could be exerting energy into many other activities based on certain facts.
1.3.4.1. Pro: By the logic of the thesis title, one should ward their door with garlic in case vampires exist. Since we cannot disprove vampires don't exist, it's the only reasonable course of action.
1.3.5. Pro: One should believe that one themselves can be their own God, as suggested by Nietzsche's ''[Übermensch](https://ccrma.stanford.edu/~pj97/Nietzsche.htm)'' or ''Super-human''; this would mean that one decides their actions based on their own initiative.
1.3.5.1. Pro: One only needs to believe, and find benefit in believing, in a higher being if one cannot be responsible for their own actions and need external incentives. The idea of a God constantly watching one's actions and judging one would not be necessary if people believed in Nietzsche's idea of judging and qualifying one's own actions.
1.3.5.1.1. Con: One may take responsibility for, and justify one's own actions; but if those actions are socially unacceptable, then justice cannot serve both the society and the individual.  Therefore, an ultimate source of morality is needed.  The "buck has to stop" somewhere.
1.3.5.1.2. Con: Believing in God creates more responsibility for the individual, and they are still responsible for their own actions. Having to answer to someone for one's actions doesn't make one irresponsible or unable to judge themselves.
1.3.5.2. Con: If morality is relative, then we can choose to do horrible things if we simply justify them to ourselves. For example, Nietzsche's 'Übermensch' was used as a means of justification for the Nazis to assert their 'will to power'.
1.3.5.2.1. Con: The fact that people possess different perceptions of what is morally good is what makes morality relative. This doesn't mean one cannot suggest that their moral precepts are better. It just means there is no absolute moral standard. Whether one writes it down or appeals to authority, morals are created by humans.
1.3.5.3. Con: Following one source of information - be it external \(God\) or internal \(oneself as God\) - could lead to biases in decision-making.
1.3.6. Pro: Telling others about false information \(such as God existing when it's not true\) could lead to [legal difficulties](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/35).
1.3.7. Con: Believing in God can lead to social organisation.
1.3.8. Con: Belief and truth are not based on what's more beneficial to an individual. At the same time, the individual might be harmed according to one's perspective and be blessed according to another's.
1.3.9. Con: This assumes a particular kind of God, which does not necessarily have to be the case. Not every God demands obedience to strongly misunderstood scriptures and prohibits discussion. One could believe in a metaphorical God, and very act of believing could orient a person positively in the world. Allowing them to tackle difficulties and bringing good in the world.
1.3.10. Con: There are benefits of faith that accrue to the believer whether a deity exists or not. Many people attain a sense of comfort and community through their belief in God even though they have no concrete proof that a supreme being exists.
1.3.10.1. Pro: Believing in God can help calm individuals in testing times.
1.3.11. Con: One could believe in a supreme being without dedicating significant/any amount from her daily life but using this only as a moral compass and/or inner peace instrument.
1.3.12. Pro: Belief in God may encourage wishful thinking, which can be counterproductive.
1.3.13. Con: Belief in God need not involve an organised church. It can be a deeply personal affair, God serving as a father-figure for a superstitious individual to commune with and ask for guidance as a small solace \(similar to placebos in medicine\) in an increasingly depressing world.
1.4. Con: Believing in God harms society.
1.4.1. Pro: People who believe in God often have questionable morals and ways of thinking due to a belief in God's existence, as can be seen throughout history as well as in the modern age.
1.4.1.1. Pro: Organized religion and the appeal to scripture is the moral justification for much bigotry in the world.
1.4.1.1.1. Pro: Religion/belief in God could be used to justify anything: the Crusades, the Native American genocide, the suppression of intellectuals, and the marginalisation of many groups, to name but a few, were all allegedly carried out in the name of God. This is too dangerous a consequence of believing in God.
1.4.1.1.1.1. Con: This is an oversimplification. Scapegoats can be found in anything. People can do horrible things in the name of freedom, in the name of democracy, in the name of free speech, in the name of love, or in the name of justice. The purest scapegoats are the best.
1.4.1.1.1.1.1. Pro: A scapegoat is good if people can believe in it. The holiest, purest things can't be seen by, or touched by humans. They are ideas. People feel that the pure, immaterial things need to be defended, because they can't defend themselves.
1.4.1.1.1.1.1.1. Pro: Not agreeing with something pure can create an alienating feeling. It's a mix of xenophobia, [disgust](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XBu6xI1iUM0), and [anger](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rE3j_RHkqJc&). When the idea is exposed to multiple people, those people can react negatively.
1.4.1.1.2. Pro: The Abrahamic religious traditions all foment the illusion of exceptionalism \(the foundation of polarisation\) within their faithful via the 'Chosen People' myth.
1.4.1.1.3. Pro: The [Ku Klux Klan](https://www.splcenter.org/fighting-hate/extremist-files/ideology/ku-klux-klan) are groups of extremist reactionaries who vouch for white supremacy and advocate violent methods of 'purification'. These movements claim to uphold Christian morality and other theologically-derived values.
1.4.1.1.3.1. Con: Virtually every Christian denomination [denounces](https://www.gotquestions.org/KKK-Christian.html) the KKK, calling its beliefs anti-Christian in nature.
1.4.1.2. Con: Organisations led by religious groups do a lot of good in society.
1.4.1.2.1. Con: -> See 1.4.1.1.
1.4.1.2.2. Pro: Many charities are religious in nature.
1.4.1.2.2.1. Con: Many charities that do good are not religious and don’t believe in God.
1.4.1.2.2.2. Con: Many religious charities are discriminatory.
1.4.1.2.2.2.1. Pro: The Salvation army actively campaigns against civil rights, and is anti-LGBT.
1.4.1.2.3. Con: Many also do a lot of harm.  In fact the [Catholic Church](http://freethoughtpedia.com/wiki/Priest_Abuse)has been covering up abusive priests for decades.
1.4.1.3. Pro: Religious practices sometimes fall into the category of child abuse: the threat of eternity in hell for not believing what parents believe and genital mutilation during infancy are just two examples.
1.4.1.4. Con: People who do not believe in God also do so. Illness and fanaticism can born out from every ideology.
1.4.1.4.1. Pro: The main cause of mass genocide in the twentieth century was not religion, but humans playing God. The Nazis, the USSR and Communist China were all systems that rejected religion and followed their own moral code, one that far more questionable.
1.4.1.4.1.1. Pro: It was not the face of religion that caused the Chernobyl incident, nor the nuclear bombings of Hiroshima or Nagasaki.
1.4.1.5. Con: These people's morals are not caused by their religious beliefs, but rather it is the other way around. They use a supreme being they claim to represent to justify their own human desire for power.
1.4.1.6. Pro: Religion is generally at odds with rational thinking and science.
1.4.1.6.1. Pro: Blind faith in any religion often actively encourages [children](https://youtu.be/uYtYQ0a7btQ) to discredit science and discourages use of reason, both of which set humans apart from all other species.
1.4.1.7. Pro: Religion is deeply entrenched in many nation's politics, lagging their countries behind in education and critical thinking.
1.4.1.7.1. Con: This statement oversimplifies the reality of things. In Buddhism, one of the first things one learns is the use of critical thinking and Buddhism is a religion. Critical thinking will enhance education.
1.4.1.7.1.1. Pro: Buddhism emphasizes critical thinking, and skepticism, in the classic suttras. Buddha instructed his followers to not believe in traditions, rituals, ideas, authority, or people blindly.
1.4.1.7.1.2. Pro: Buddha isn't just a people, its a state of mind what can be achieved by everyone. Siddhartha \(the first Buddha\) reached this state by critical thinking, questioning the importance of heritage, and questioning the holiness ascetic life.
1.4.1.7.2. Pro: Dogmatic studies from the past will slow down scientific evolution and education. But that is deeply rooted in outdated dogmas, not in religion. The sad truth is that those two are a common pair.
1.4.1.8. Con: Immoral people take immoral actions, whether or not they use religion as their excuse. Such actions are often condemned by the majority of moral deists, even if the perpetrator claims religious grounds for their actions.
1.4.1.9. Pro: There are many minority groups that are ostracised and denigrated by certain religious groups.
1.4.1.9.1. Pro: Religions have historically targeted apostates, non-believers, heretics & heathens with death, second-class status, and other deleterious punishments.
1.4.1.9.1.1. Pro: Take the [early witch-hunts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Witch_trials_in_the_early_modern_period), worries of 'Satanic' and  Pagan witches resulted in a lot of loss of life, often with spurious evidence.
1.4.1.9.1.2. Con: While this has been the case historically, one could say the same of many instances in history when humans have given horrible punishments to those who are not the same as them, regardless of religion. Instances of this happening are far less frequent now, due to greater education and compassion.
1.4.1.9.1.3. Pro: Islamic regimes throughout history have implemented the [Jizya](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jizya) tax, which was specifically for non-Muslim subjects.
1.4.1.9.1.4. Pro: Jews were often treated terribly in Catholic realms, from being [scapegoated](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medieval_antisemitism#The_Black_Death) for the black death, to being given inferior societal station.
1.4.1.9.2. Con: -> See 1.4.1.4.
1.4.1.9.3. Pro: Homosexuality was and is widely repressed by religion.
1.4.1.9.3.1. Con: There is no evidence to suggest that the Greek Gods had a problem with that. From Zeus, through Dionysus, till Heracles everyone had their fair share of homosexual relationships. It's a matter of culture, not religion.
1.4.1.9.3.2. Pro: Take, for example, the famous [Leviticus 18:22](http://biblehub.com/leviticus/18-22.htm), which, in even the kindest translations, forbids anything outside of a heteronormative sexual relationship.
1.4.1.9.3.3. Pro: In [Uganda](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uganda_Anti-Homosexuality_Act,_2014#Overview), where Christians make up 85% of the population, [Homosexuality carries a life sentence.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGBT_rights_in_Uganda) One of the reasons cited was to "protect the cherished culture of the people of Uganda, legal, RELIGIOUS, and traditional family values of the people of Uganda against the attempts of sexual rights activists seeking to impose their values of sexual promiscuity on the people of Uganda."
1.4.1.10. Pro: -> See 1.4.1.1.1.
1.4.2. Pro: Believing in God, even if it's not true is a bad idea as widespread claims of belief provide legitimacy to religious fundamentalists.
1.4.2.1. Con: Not believing in God gives legitimacy to non-religious fundamentalists. Ideologies can be dangerous with, or without a God to back them up.
1.4.3. Pro: Not believing in God allows societies to be more adaptive to change
1.4.3.1. Con: Ancient Greece was one of the most adaptive civilizations, and they believed in multiple Gods at the same time.
1.4.4. Con: Religion has stabilized societies, regulated the emotions of the people within that societies and ensured a complete and consequent moral system by providing people a way to live that was pointed towards harmony in all layers of society for all of human history up until now.
1.4.5. Con: The [decline of religion](https://www.amazon.com/Maps-Meaning-Architecture-Jordan-Peterson/dp/0415922224) gave rise to much more harmful and deadly moral systems such as communism/marxism and fascism.
1.4.5.1. Con: And yet Nazism can be conceptualised as a [political religion.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religious_aspects_of_Nazism)
1.4.5.2. Con: The decline of religion religion did not lead to communism/Marxism or fascism. Most fascist regimes adopted elements and symbols of religion initially to achieve a degree of authority and because it was easier for uneducated masses to understand religious and finality analogies which they had experienced all of their lives; socialism/Marxism simply substituted for religions in that the belief in a higher, central and often unseen and unreal authority figure would provide leadership or punishment
1.4.5.3. Con: Jordan Peterson is a controversial source and is not a historian. He may claim that there is a cause and effect relationship between the decline of religion and the rise of fascism and communism, but he is not a relevant expert.
1.4.5.4. Con: If the decline of religion caused communism, Marxism and/or fascism then we would expect that the least religious societies would be the most prone to turning towards these ideologies, but this is not the case. Nations like France, Australia and Iceland have very high rates of atheism but have never elected communist, Marxist or fascist governments.
1.4.6. Con: The human nature harms society. It is only by following a principle that lies outside of the individual and thus transcends the individual that multiple individuals can orient themselves to a harmonious society.
1.4.6.1. Con: Society cannot be divorced from its individual constituents. Society is principally a product of two or more individuals, and as such represents an aggregation of the \(human\) nature of its constituents.
1.4.6.1.1. Pro: Of the relationships between the individual and the various societies he or she may subscribe to, it is a fallacy to view such as a dichotomy of good vs evil: there existed as many evil societies \(to wit Nazi Germany\) as evil individuals.
1.4.6.1.2. Pro: Society is the expression of human nature as mankind evolved to a more communal existence. To say that society is harmed by its own tendency to be communal is a nonsense and fallacy. To assume that society must  be only composed by a benign, cooperative and an at all times helpful and constructive population is to ignore the elements of human nature in favour of an idealised but unreal mankind.
1.4.7. Pro: There are many concepts of various gods, which are used to support all kinds of belief systems, many of them very intolerant. For these systems, only the believers are real people.
1.4.8. Pro: Even if it were of benign consequences to believe in a non-existent God, the principle of believing without requiring evidence propagates through the mind and makes believers more prone to believe other theories without supporting evidence. This has bad consequences.
1.4.8.1. Pro: People then choose to believe unsupported health-affecting beliefs.
1.4.8.1.1. Pro: They may then believe that vaccinations cause autism.
1.4.8.1.2. Pro: They may then believe that homeopathy works.
1.4.8.1.3. Pro: They may then believe that praying to God will heal them.
1.4.8.2. Pro: Believing per se is a dangerous concept, as an epistemic system has been chosen that doesn't require evidence for one to believe something. This can means that people can start believing anything, including very radical forms of beliefs.
1.4.8.2.1. Con: For all phenomena, we assign a belief as an assumption or theory until further proven or rectified by truth.
1.4.8.3. Con: As the culture of supernaturalism is inherently non-scientific, reliance on evidence is not essential to adopting the structure. In addition, there exists philosophical presuppositions within the doctrinal structure of believing in a Judeo Christian God that functions as a self-checker of moral deviation and misconception.
1.4.8.4. Con: We can't assume everyone has reached the maturity of a logical and evidence based state of mind when in fact most are driven by emotion and looking for rules to follow. Religion provides a community based framework of behavior for these people.
1.4.8.4.1. Pro: The rules each religion abides by may not be inherently moral. Even within a single religion, the differences in interpretation of text can lead to radically different "rules." Application of some of these "rules" has proven to have monstrous consequences.
1.4.8.4.2. Con: While religions have rules they usually date back to when the religion was first created, this creates a dissonance between what we find acceptable today compared to what was acceptable in the past and what is acceptable behaviour according to the rules of a religion.
1.4.8.4.2.1. Con: At their heart they teach basic moral thinking and guidance that endures and remains applicable. The Golden Rule is the core lesson in Christianity and it remains as applicable today as when spoken by Jesus.
1.4.9. Pro: Belief in God necessarily gives power to those who claim divine knowledge and dominion over others via authority to dictate morality.
1.5. Con: Believing in God may not lead to positive theological outcomes.
1.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.5.1.
1.5.2. Pro: The notion proposed by Pascal in his Wager is inherently flawed.
1.5.2.1. Pro: Pascal's Wager is flawed in that it proposes infinite utility gains and losses. When one introduces infinity into utility equations, it turns out that every possible action \(as long as it has the possibility, however small, of converting one\) should have an infinite expected utility value. For this reason, going to the park is just as valid a response to Pascal's Wager as going to church.
1.5.2.1.1. Con: Pascal \(or for that matter, Jesus\) never implied that going to church made one a believer in God, any more than buying a US flag makes one a believer in Donald Trump.
1.5.2.1.2. Pro: Any fraction of infinity is still infinity. Therefore, any action that offers a non-zero chance of increasing faith can be justified, by the following equation. Value of action = probability of reward * value of reward.
The value of the reward is infinite. Therefore any non-zero value for 'probability of reward' leads to infinity for 'Value of action'.
1.5.2.2. Pro: Pascal's wager justifies the belief in Gods in general, but not necessarily the God of Christianity. If one proposed that there existed a God who would send them to heaven and hell based on their belief, then Pascal's Wager would say one should believe in that God over the God of Christianity. It does not advocate for the belief in an established God, but instead in the theoretical deity that promises the most reward/punishment.
1.5.2.3. Pro: Pascal's Wager assumes a particular theology: one where the God rewards belief and not action. If God doesn't judge one based on their belief in him, however, any perceived gain in believing is meaningless.
1.5.2.3.1. Con: In this version of the Bible, God will punish non-believers: "But the cowardly, the [unbelieving](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Revelations%2021:8&version=NIV), the vile, the murderers, the sexually immoral, those who practice magic arts, the idolaters and all liars—they will be consigned to the fiery lake of burning sulfur."
1.5.2.3.1.1. Con: Despite Pascal's theology, Christianity does not describe the only God this wager could apply to.
1.5.2.4. Pro: This claim, Pascal's Wager, is countered by the [Atheist's Wager](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atheist%27s_Wager).
1.5.2.4.1. Con: The Atheist's Wager only works if God plays by the Atheist's rules and definition of benevolence. However, the Christian God does not: He shows good things to [both deserving and undeserving people](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=matthew+5%3A45), and reserves eternal life to those who [believe in Jesus Christ's work](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=romans+10%3A9).
1.5.2.5. Pro: This assumes god wouldn't be able to distinguish between a true believer and someone "believing" for personal gain,  which contradicts the assertion of an omniscient deity; God may even punish feigned belief. This consideration changes the Wager.
1.5.2.5.1. Pro: In almost all religion one's ability to enter the kingdom of heaven is an assessment of heart and not of mind. That is to say one must truly believe God’s existence rather than just accepting it through logical choice.
1.5.2.6. Pro: The Apostle Paul would have rejected Pascal's Wager. In [1 Corinthians 15:12-19](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1+Corinthians+15%3A12-19&version=ESV), he argues that the Christian faith is of no value if Christ has not been raised from the dead. From Paul's perspective, there is much to be lost in this life from believing in a God that does not exist.
1.5.2.7. Pro: Pascal's wager is circular in that believing in the existence of God in order to please God is only relevant if you believe God exists in the first place.
1.5.2.8. Pro: The idea that "you should believe" assumes that one has a choice over what they believe: ["ought implies can"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ought_implies_can). However, one cannot choose their beliefs, and so there is no "should" with regard to belief. \(Perhaps there is only rational or irrational.\)
1.5.2.8.1. Pro: One does not choose their beliefs through volition. One has to be convinced.
1.5.2.8.2. Pro: It is impossible for a sane person to sincerely believe in something they don't genuinely think is true, or at least do not think is false.
1.5.2.8.3. Pro: Belief without evidence is against rational thinking.
1.5.2.8.3.1. Con: Many positive emotions and activities are outside rational thinking; this does not mean that they do not bring benefit to the lives of those who engage with them.
1.5.2.8.3.1.1. Con: Belief without evidence being irrational is not the same as emotions outside rationality. Beliefs are not emotions.
1.5.3. Con: If a person is truly choosing whether to believe or not, they are doing it knowing there is a chance their belief may be wrong. As long as they are aware of that possibility, they are accepting both the possibility of positive and negative theological outcomes.
1.6. Pro: If one's belief in God has been so deeply embedded into their identity that the acceptance of no God \(even if its true there is no God\) would cause a serious mental breakdown or long-term adverse mental affects, then one should continue the belief.
1.6.1. Con: Even if God is not true \(or, religious beliefs are proven to be false\) we should be be allowed to believe everything we want. But, nobody should be allowed do spread false information, so there should be no public religion nor public teaching of anything not scientifically proved.
1.6.2. Con: Accepting as "truth" that which we are unsure of would not lead to a "blissful ignorance" but rather to an internal torment. We have an obligation, of morality, of responsibility to future generations \(who may be able to prove or disprove the existence of god\) to continue to strive for the answer, lest we be considered in the same way, with sympathy/scorn, as we consider early man who saw the Sun was a god or the Romans who deified their emperors, knowing as we do now that they were not gods.
1.6.3. Con: On a personal level, continued belief in something that is not true has short term benefits. On a larger scale, such as the society, continuation of false beliefs by many can lead to bigger negative consequences \(Theocracies, killings inspired by religious fervour, and/or the stagnation of Sciences and learning\).
1.6.4. Con: Sometimes a forest needs a fire to burn dead wood and regrow afresh. Preventing this only leads to bigger, uncontrolled forest fires, which cause more long term damage. Confronting deep theological beliefs may be difficult and lead to short to medium term difficulty, but if it is ultimately for the growth of the thinker, then this is far healthier than holding on to a false belief.
1.6.5. Con: The value of truth cannot be measured against the value of suffering. To conflate the two is to commit a category error. It would be nice if people would not have to suffer as a result of knowing the truth, but there is no universal moral principle which values human well-being over knowledge of truth, or the other way around.
1.7. Pro: Believing that there's an all-Knowing and all-Seeing being makes it likelier for human beings to adhere to a moral code which is beneficial for the planet.
1.7.1. Pro: People who believe in God tend to treat nature with respect due to the belief that everything has been created by Him. Hence, they would not want to damage or misuse His creation as this might displease Him.
1.7.1.1. Con: Certain religious contexts hold that the world is temporary and thus is not ultimately important.
1.7.1.2. Con: Some [studies](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0160791X14000177) have found that "Beliefs in divine intervention and afterlife reduce perceived climate change risk."
1.7.2. Pro: If used to be a better person and do good, it is better to believe in God and maybe find out we were wrong than not to believe in God and find out there is such a thing.
1.7.2.1. Con: People with legitimate faith in a God they understand to be real do not conceive of their belief as something they "use" in order accomplish some goal.
1.7.3. Con: Believing in God can only encourage morality if we believe God encourages or enforces that code in some respect.
1.7.4. Con: Many religious beliefs associated with God contain end-of-the-world scenarios that could trivialize concern for caring about the planet.
1.7.5. Con: Some religious leaders have done [immoral things](https://www.beliefnet.com/faiths/2008/09/a-gallery-of-fallen-religious-leaders.aspx). As such, the claim that it is more likely for those who believe in God to adhere to a moral code cannot be accepted without significant evidence.
1.7.6. Pro: Religion \(God\) is about [spiritual growth](http://whale.to/b/peck1.html), and there are stages of spiritual growth. People at the early stages are better citizens because of their belief/fear of the "big guy" watching them.
1.7.6.1. Con: This conception of religion as a ladder of growth toward increasing stages of wisdom or enlightenment is hardly universal across religious traditions.
1.7.6.1.1. Pro: Jesus, the founder of the world's largest religion, specifically denounced ladder-climbing spirituality, [saying](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Matthew+20&version=NRSV) "You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones are tyrants over them. It will not be so among you; but whoever wishes to be great among you must be your servant, and whoever wishes to be first among you must be your slave" and in [another place](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Mark+10&version=NRSV), "Truly I tell you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will never enter it."
1.7.6.1.2. Pro: Buddhists, Hindus, and related faiths imagine the [death-rebirth cycle as a kind of ladder](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reincarnation#Hinduism). But the goal of enlightenment is not to climb the ladder but rather [to exit it.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moksha)
1.7.6.2. Con: Considering human history and modern levels of crime/war, the claim that religion leads to "better citizens" is erroneous. Any look at statistics would note that correlation does not exist for that claim and in fact indicates the opposite. As [religious belief decreases](https://pitweb.pitzer.edu/academics/wp-content/uploads/sites/38/2014/12/FAC-Zuckerman-Sociology-Compass.pdf) society seems to act better by any objective standard.
1.7.6.2.1. Con: As one example, domestic violence is half the amount in homes where they attend services weekly vs non-religious.
1.7.7. Con: Belief in an all-Knowing and all-Seeing being makes it easier for those in power to manipulate the lower educated, as rules and regulations can be manipulated to favour certain groups over others.
1.7.8. Pro: Choosing to act as if a wise God \(who loves all people equally\) is watching can reinforce our better impulses and inhibit the worse ones.
1.8. Con: By the definition of faith, one can not simply believe in a God that they already know does not exist and trying to do so causes harm.
1.8.1. Pro: We should not encourage self-deception. There is no innate virtue choosing to adhere to something we suspect is false.
1.8.1.1. Pro: In a scenario where God doesn't exist, we should believe the truth.
1.8.1.1.1. Con: We should believe the truth regardless of whether God exists or not. If he exists, we should believe that he exists \(and I propone George Carlin's take on God's obviously male gender\). If he does not, we should not. Whether we believe that he exists or not should depend on whether he exists or not, at least to the extent that we're able to tell the difference.
1.8.1.2. Con: A belief that inspires us to act virtuously has innate virtue whether the belief is true or not.
1.8.1.2.1. Con: Nothing about God's existence inspires virtuous acts. The distinction between virtue and vice in religion is not based on the existence of God but rather various cultural and societal assumptions.
1.8.1.2.2. Con: If taken to the extreme, religious people can act in ways that most people would consider evil. For example in religions, past and present, one could be [stoned](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stoning) for committing 'sin'.
1.8.1.3. Con: If there is no God, there is no innate value in believing the truth either, so believing in God would be harmless even if not virtuous.
1.8.1.3.1. Con: One can find innate value in believing the truth using other moral doctrines such as deontology. The belief in God is not necessary for this.
1.8.1.3.1.1. Con: One of the most famous deontologists, Kant, argued for faith in God.
1.8.1.4. Con: Most people can deceive themselves to the point that they will no longer even suspect it it is false.
1.8.2. Pro: -> See 1.3.2.
1.8.3. Pro: If one decided that one should 'believe' in God but one did not truly believe in God, this would be an impossible feat: one cannot believe that God exists if one is sure it is not true, pretty much by definition.
1.8.3.1. Pro: It’s impossible to force oneself to believe something that one doesn’t think is true. Just simply saying out loud that one believes something doesn’t mean one actually believes it. To believe something is to “feel” it, to “know” it from within.
1.8.3.2. Con: The claim that one cannot change their beliefs runs counter to [the Catholic theology of synergism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synergism_\(theology\)) which holds people at least partially responsible for their own salvation through choosing to believe.
1.8.3.3. Pro: The [monergistic theology of calvinism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monergism) holds that only God can cause a person to believe.
1.8.4. Con: Believing in god and acting as if you believe in god are two different things, Pascal postulated even if we do not believe in god or lack the faith, we ought act as if we do.
1.8.5. Con: It isn't the case that we know God to not exist, only that His \(or her\) existence is unproven. Hence, no one knows God does not exist.
1.9. Con: It is immoral to feign belief in God so as to gain infinite reward.
1.9.1. Pro: Doxastic Involuntarism is true: no one can simply choose what to believe. All beliefs entail an ethical responsibility; we must believe only what we genuinely think the case is. That is to say that even if we suspect something is the case, we cannot simply declare it's true unless there's sufficient warrant. It is then incoherent and unethical to say "I think the case is that God exists even though I do not think it is the case that God exists."
1.9.1.1. Con: It is possible to think one thing and believe its opposite.
1.9.2. Pro: It is not possible to intentionally reason one's way to belief in God.
1.9.2.1. Con: There are many [arguments](http://www.iep.utm.edu/ont-arg/) for the existence of God. Understanding that God does/could/has to exist is necessary \(but not sufficient\) for attaining true belief.
1.9.3. Con: Pascal's wager is a justification for the pursuit of belief, not belief itself. A person who is convinced by the wager \(assuming the wager is sound\) would begin to attend church in hopes of attaining true belief for itself in the future.
1.9.4. Pro: One should believe that which is their own will to believe. This is consistent with freewill. If God wanted to force one to believe, he would not have given one the choice. If there is no God, then one still has freewill to do whatever makes their life more fulfilling.
1.9.4.1. Con: This argument pre-supposes the existence of 'free will', which is something recently [questioned](https://whyevolutionistrue.wordpress.com/2016/05/11/bear-and-bloom-an-experiment-on-the-illusion-of-conscious-will/) by scientific [research](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/free-will-could-all-be-an-illusion-scientists-suggest-after-study-that-shows-choice-could-just-be-a7008181.html).
1.9.5. Con: Immorality does not exist, since God doesn't.
1.10. Pro: In mortal life and in the after-life, there would be perceptible benefits to be gained from believing in God, both for the believer and society as a whole; even if God does not exist.
1.10.1. Con: There are no [tangible](https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=Tangible&oq=Tangible&aqs=chrome..69i57j69i61l2j0j69i61j0.1618j1j9&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8) benefits to belief in a God, in the afterlife.
1.10.1.1. Pro: As there is no definitive proof of an afterlife, there is no reason to assume benefits after death.
1.10.1.1.1. Con: This is an appeal to ignorance fallacy as there is no definitive proof of an afterlife not existing.
1.10.1.1.1.1. Con: An argument from ignorance is an appeal to an unknown cause where an explanation for something is unknown. The existence or non-existence of an afterlife does not explain anything, thus the burden of proof for the existence of an afterlife lies with those who claim it exists.
1.10.1.1.2. Pro: There is overwhelming evidence that when the brain dies, the mind dies \(dementia, Alzheimers, MRI studies, brain damage, etc.\) The evidence for a materialistic mind and the ultimate death of the mind shifts the burden of proof to those claiming that there is an afterlife.
1.10.1.2. Pro: If there is an afterlife via spiritual dualism or physical resurrection, one could make the argument that it would not be our own lives continued but rather a [copy of us](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/why-the-ldquo-you-rdquo-in-an-afterlife-wouldnt-really-be-you/).
1.10.2. Pro: -> See 1.4.1.2.
1.10.3. Pro: Attending church regularly is like meditation and [reduces stress levels](https://academic.oup.com/sf/article-abstract/80/1/215/2234357).
1.10.3.1. Con: There are ways of reducing stress and increasing peacefulness that are not dependent on religious practices: non-religious meditation is one such way.
1.10.3.1.1. Pro: Regularly attending social events on Sundays might be as helpful.
1.10.3.2. Con: Attending church doesn’t necessarily correlate with belief in God, I can attend church and not believe in God, many atheists attend church to be part of the community.
1.10.3.3. Con: Being told that one has been cursed to burn in hell unless they repent, doesn't sound like a very stress-reducing exercise.
1.10.4. Pro: [92%](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18219572) of academic studies show a statistically relevant positive relationship between mental health and religiousness.
1.10.4.1. Con: One can still join a religion and not believe in God.
1.10.4.2. Con: This really depends upon the exact nature of the religion in question.  For example the Westboro Baptist Church preaches intolerance.  There is no doubt that their religiosity has negative mental health connotations.  Many religions do not promote unity and benevolence.
1.10.4.3. Con: The linked article groups "religion" with "spirituality". Therefore, the benefits of belief in a God cannot be disentangled from spiritual beliefs without a God.
1.10.4.4. Con: The reviewed papers seek, particularly, many indices of adolescent mental health against religiosity or spirituality; they often seek multiple correlates in one study. It isn't, therefore, possible to accurately understand the role of chance in these papers, as multiple variables are being looked at.
1.10.4.5. Con: The review paper cited looks at a narrow demographic: adolescents. It isn't, therefore, possible to extrapolate to the wider population.
1.10.4.5.1. Con: Since adolescence is a highly significant period of a person's emotional and physical growth, and since young people under the age of twenty five make up an increasingly large percentage of the total human population, this is nonetheless a useful demographic to study with regards to mental health.
1.10.5. Con: -> See 1.1.5.1.
1.10.6. Con: Even if we decide to believe in God and in afterlife, there is no way to determine with certainty what does God want us to do, nor which life conduct would bring us the best afterlife.
1.10.7. Pro: Seeing as there are no specific definitions of God generally agreed on by all, the belief in a higher power other than yourself is good for you on an emotional level.
1.10.7.1. Con: If the goal is a stable emotional state, we should use the tool that has always produced the best results; science. Scientific [research](http://www.collective-evolution.com/2014/12/11/harvard-study-unveils-what-meditation-literally-does-to-the-brain/) has already shown effective ways of improving ones emotional state among other things.
1.10.8. Con: Belief in god acts as an invisible police and restrains people from committing crimes and unfair acts. However, equally effective is the Popular Theory's \(Perceived Path of Least Resistance\) principle according to which one should always tell the truth and this leads one to a more relaxed and happy life without the belief in a fictitious supernatural being.
1.10.9. Pro: Altruism can only exist as an act of self-destruction unless one believes in something greater than themselves. God is one such belief.
1.10.10. Pro: Arguably one of the most common reasons to change one's beliefs in God is in adopting the religion of one's spouse. It helps avoid relationship conflicts, relieve familial pressure, and provide a uniform upbringing for one's children.
1.10.11. Pro: The belief in a higher power, which constantly judges moral direction, functions as a tool for maintaining appropriate human behavior in a complex landscape and fosters culture, art, productivity, and virtue.
1.10.11.1. Pro: Religions are integral parts of culture, architecture and history, and thus should be preserved.
1.10.11.1.1. Con: Social evolution is inevitable, and even necessary for progress. Just because something is considered integral to a certain culture, does not mean it is a desirable practice, or that it should be preserved for all eternity.
1.10.11.1.1.1. Pro: There are many practices and beliefs that were once widely accepted as integral to particular cultures that are now no more, and society is better off without them: slavery, dictatorships, racial segregation.
1.10.11.1.2. Con: Religions don’t need to believe in a monotheistic god to continue in today’s culture and to uphold architecture buildings. Historically, there was a time when the majority of populations believed in many Gods as their religion. The point is religion can evolve and religion doesn’t have the correlation to a positive belief in God as has been claimed as support for this argument.
1.10.11.1.3. Con: It is not necessary for the whole of society to believe in God in order to maintain awareness and inclusion of religion as an integral part of a region's culture, architecture and history.
1.10.11.1.3.1. Pro: According to Campbell, there are mythical archetypes that will form one's life, because they are part of one's psyche. Those archetypes can be found in religious myths also, and will affect one's life. In a sense one can have a religious experience, even without beliefs.
1.10.11.1.3.1.1. Con: Structure within a divine perspective facilitates archetypal representation in a stable manner, whereas agnostic mytholgy inherently doubts the validity of myth in an inconsistent manner.
1.10.11.1.3.2. Con: There are some parts in religion, like there are some parts in art, that one can only experience through close contact with one's beliefs. One cannot fully appreciate [numinosity](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/numinous), and one cannot understand the psyche of [mysticism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mysticism) in any other way.
1.10.12. Pro: There is [longstanding prejudice](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discrimination_against_atheists) against atheists that can make it difficult to be in certain professions, particularly politics.
1.10.13. Con: No major religious tradition claims that feigned belief, for the purpose of receiving a reward, is in fact rewarded. On the other hand, searching after truth for its own sake is acknowledged as a virtue. If there is a God who doles out rewards and punishments after death, it seems likely that such a God would reward honest, thoughtful disbelief over selfish, feigned belief.
1.10.14. Pro: -> See 1.3.13.
1.10.15. Pro: Belief in a happy afterlife may relieve the fear of dying.
1.10.15.1. Con: There are many atheists who do not fear death, and many religious people who do. Therefore it seems that religious belief has little impact on the fear of death.
1.10.15.1.1. Pro: [Studies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_anxiety_\(psychology\)) on death anxiety in people with religious people are extremely mixed. Some studies report a positive correlation and some report a negative correlation.
1.10.15.1.2. Con: One could speculate that those people with a greater fear of death gravitate toward religion while those who are less concerned do not.
1.10.15.2. Con: In many cases those who believe in God fear not making it to heaven when they die and live life worrying about it, whereas those who don't believe in God already know and accept what happens when they pass.
1.10.15.3. Con: Not having a fear of dying is not necessarily a good thing and can lead to recklessness with both one's own and other people's lives.
1.10.15.4. Con: It is better to conquer the fear of death through a rational evaluation of the subject rather than pretending it isn't a problem \(ie. that there is a heaven so death is a non-issue\). If this were another topic, say the potential loss of a large amount of money, it would be better to understand why the world would still be alright without it rather than simply saying there is an unproven divine solution \(eg. God handing it all back like a holy ATM\) and everything will be fine.
1.10.16. Pro: Belief in God in a specific religious context may relieve existential dread.
1.10.16.1. Con: Existential dread may be a product of the loss of religious faith \(both individually and as a society\). It may be the case that such dread may be avoided by never believing in the first place.
1.10.16.1.1. Con: While the loss of religious framework of meaning may indeed cause existential dread, the same could be said of the loss of nearly any framework of meaning.
1.10.16.2. Con: It is possible to believe in God and still have [existential dread](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_existentialism).
1.10.17. Con: -> See 1.4.1.
1.10.18. Pro: There needs to be a plan in place if God exists. A ruthless and dangerous metaphysical being may actually require resistance and defence preparations.
1.10.18.1. Con: If a very powerful or all powerful God exists, resistance is futile.
1.10.19. Pro: Individuals stand to receive infinite personal gains if God exists and they are believers.
1.10.19.1. Con: -> See 1.1.5.1.
1.10.19.2. Con: Belief in god has often times, historically, led to lack of advancement in science and understanding across populations.
1.10.19.2.1. Pro: This false principle can cause other people to make poor judgments when explained to them and they believe/act on it \(such as [televangelists saying anything to get money](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7y1xJAVZxXg)\).
1.10.19.3. Pro: If one acts selflessly and benevolently throughout their life, one will be rewarded by ascent to heaven in the after-life.
1.10.19.3.1. Con: The idea of eternal suffering and eternal joy are perspective based and can be contradictory to the belief and following of God. For example, a person with an immature pre-frontal cortex who exhibits signs of sociopathy and serial killer thoughts, who believes in God and is granted eternal joy by way of finally getting to perform those tendencies eternally wouldn’t make sense as a reward since he wasn’t able to do that in life and vice-versa.
1.10.19.4. Pro: If one prays for someone or something, one will oftentimes be granted what they prayed for if God, in His omniscience, sees that it is right to do so.
1.10.19.5. Pro: If one asks for support from God throughout one's life, He will guide one through difficult periods and give one the strength to make important or tough decisions.
1.10.19.6. Con: If God does not exist, one wastes their time praying, worshiping, and following religious doctrine for the sake of securing their ticket into a nonexistent heaven.
1.10.19.7. Con: If God exists and one has acted malevolently throughout their life, one will be punished in the after-life.
1.10.19.8. Pro: Pascal's wager does not require an equal likelihood. It only requires some minute possibility of an accountable unlimited afterlife. Reward/punishment over infinite time multiplied by any probability will always outweigh reward/punishment over a limited time.