Discussion Title: Should bilingualism be mandatory in Canada?

1. Bilingualism should be mandatory for Canadian citizens.
1.1. Pro: Mandatory bilingualism prevents English from becoming the de facto national language, and therefore protects other minority languages apart from French from being marginalised.
1.2. Pro: Bilingualism is a huge international advantage. Not having it places Canada at a disadvantage to its European counterparts.
1.2.1. Con: European countries do not have mandatory bilingualism.
1.2.1.1. Pro: The education system in Belgium - a linguistically divided country - teaches Dutch to French speakers and vice versa only as a second language, not enforcing full bilingualism.
1.2.1.1.1. Pro: The teaching \(of the other main national language\) as a second language in schools is mandatory though.
1.2.1.1.2. Con: Belgium has three official languages \(the third being German\). Learning German is optional \(and not very widespread\)
1.3. Con: Already in government positions people are chosen on bilingualism over merit, leading to less competent candidates and an overrepresentation of Quebec in bureaucracy.
1.4. Con: Canada is a large country, and forcing bilingualism in the provinces further from the French hubs will be difficult.
1.4.1. Con: Difficulty in implementing a measure should not be a reason not to do so if the measure is considered beneficial.
1.4.1.1. Con: Benefit should always be measured in tandem with other factors. Economic cost may outweigh bilingualism benefit; one cannot argue that just because bilingualism has benefits, it should be unilaterally implemented.
1.5. Con: No citizen of a free nation should be forced to adopt any language they don't wish to learn.
1.5.1. Con: As long as Canada maintains the official status of multiple languages, its citizens have an obligation to learn them both.
1.5.2. Con: Not communicating in the national language\(s\) undermines the ability of other citizens to debate with you, which goes against the point of free speech.
1.5.3. Con: Being a citizen means accepting civic responsibilities in exchange for the benefits of a well-ordered society. People who refuse those responsibilities should not enjoy the privileges of citizenship.
1.5.4. Pro: Depending on a Canadian's place of residence, career, and social group, learning a second language may be rationally beneficial choice, or it may be a wasteful use of time and resources. 

In the case of the latter, time and resources could be used for other purposes which are more beneficial to the individual and society.
1.6. Con: Mandatory bilingualism would severely increase the difficulty of attaining citizenship.
1.6.1. Con: Bilingualism as a citizenship requirement would allow new immigrants to be more informed about Canada, and permit them to integrate much easier.
1.6.2. Con: More than three quarters of immigrants to Canada speak more than one language, [compared](https://www12.statcan.gc.ca/census-recensement/2016/as-sa/98-200-x/2016017/98-200-x2016017-eng.cfm) to just a quarter of Canadians.
1.6.3. Con: In 2016, more than half of immigrant families spoke English or French at home [already](https://www12.statcan.gc.ca/census-recensement/2016/as-sa/98-200-x/2016017/98-200-x2016017-eng.cfm).
1.6.4. Con: Migrants may be given a grace or adaptive period, so they are not required to learn one or two languages right away.
1.6.4.1. Con: The parent claim focuses on citizenship. Granting migrants citizenship, but placing probationary conditions on it \(such as learning a language\) creates second-class citizens; those who are only in name but are not truly full citizens yet.

This may be undesirable.
1.6.4.1.1. Con: Learning the language is already compulsory for those acquiring citizenship in many countries around the world, e.g. Hungary, Estonia.
1.7. Pro: Mandatory bilingualism would broaden the cultural knowledge of all citizens; they would feel more a part of a unified Canada.
1.7.1. Con: Canada is well served by having discrete, unique cultures in all its provinces. It does not need cultural homogeneity.
1.7.2. Con: Multicultural and multilingual states can still have a unified national identity, e.g. mainland Tanzania.
1.7.3. Pro: Mandatory bilingualism would distinguish Canada from other Anglophone or British-descended countries.