Discussion Title: Should the USPS allow people to opt-in to block all catalogs?

1. USPS should allow people to block all catalogs
1.1. Pro: If a person explicitly opts-in to blocking catalogs then that is what they want and thus should be honored over the desires of companies looking to increase sales.
1.2. Pro: The benefits to the environment would be significant. Restoration Hardware just sent a 700 page catalog. Multiply this by their mailing base and the numbers get huge quickly even for just one company.
1.3. Con: Hurts companies unknown to the receiver that may have bought addresses through a service.
1.4. Pro: USPS already allows people to return mail to sender when the wrong name is on it. Adding 'or current resident' to the mailing label is just a loophole that companies exploit so you can't return to sender. Eliminating this loophole would be consistent with the goal of people receiving mail intended for them.
1.5. Con: The USPS wouldn't survive the loss in revenue.
1.5.1. Pro: USPS is responsible for [over 500,000 jobs](https://www.statista.com/statistics/320262/number-of-usps-employees/) - for it to suffer financially would result in many people losing their job.
1.5.2. Con: That is not the problem of individual citizens who do not wish to receive catalogs.
1.5.3. Pro: The USPS has survived with loss in revenue for years. It is not a company, it is a government organization.
1.6. Con: Companies would find a way around it anyway.
1.6.1. Con: That is not a reason to not, at least, allow an opt-in or out option. More measures can be takes as new problems arise.
1.6.2. Con: The obstacle would likely see a reduction in catalog deliveries, at least.
1.6.3. Pro: Companies have enough of a profit incentive to find their ways around the rules.
1.7. Pro: It would save companies a huge amount of money by targeting their marketing to only those who are interested.
1.7.1. Con: If companies wanted to do this, they could do it anyway, regardless of USPS policy.
1.7.2. Con: Much of the purpose of advertising is to identify who is interested or to generate new interest.
1.8. Pro: No different than the "Do Not Call" list for mobile phones.