Discussion Title: Should we require restitution instead of or in addition to prison and fines for criminals that are not dangerous?

1. We should require restitution instead of or in addition to prison and fines for criminals that are not dangerous.
1.1. Pro: Restitution could be collected via the taxing authority making it easier to administer, through deductions on a person's paycheck and/or additional amounts paid at income tax time.
1.2. Con: Some people would choose to not to work or to work the least amount possible, rather than give restitution.
1.2.1. Con: Convicts who limit their income to spite their victims \(by not giving them their restitution\) are also punishing themselves with a lower quality of life.
1.2.2. Pro: Victims would get less restitution because the convict is not earning enough to pay the full restitution.
1.3. Pro: Victims are compensated for their losses and suffering.
1.3.1. Con: Compensation packages can be, and often are, agreed upon, both in and out of court, without the need for explicit restitution fines.
1.4. Pro: Victims don't need to file a separate civil lawsuit.
1.4.1. Pro: That reduces the number of suits that the system has to process.
1.4.2. Pro: Victims save on attorney fees.
1.5. Con: Restitution would be too difficult to implement for cases affecting a lot of victims.
1.5.1. Pro: Some victims are hard to find or classify, especially for crimes that affect everyone.
1.5.2. Con: In such a scenario, incarceration could be used. This however does not mean, that restitution should not be allowed at all.'
1.6. Pro: Criminals may think twice about certain crimes because the cost of restitution would be so high, especially for crimes affecting a lot of people.
1.6.1. Con: If people are not deterred by govt. fines and a prison penalty, it is unlikely that a different form of fine would work.
1.6.2. Pro: In some cases, restitution may be much higher than typical government fines and prison penalties, ranging in the millions or billions of dollars depending on the type of crime.
1.6.2.1. Pro: If the fine for an illegal activity is up to $250,000 but the person causes $30 million in damages due to their hacking/virus, the cost of restitution would be a bigger deterrent than the fine.
1.7. Con: Some crimes impact people worldwide, such as hacking and virus creation. The cost of restitution in these cases would take a lifetime to pay back.
1.7.1. Con: Restitution doesn't need to be complete but could be payd as a percentage of what is possible.
1.7.2. Con: Legal insurance might take up the task to offer a restitution insurance.
1.7.3. Con: If the fines are paid as a percentage of income, as suggested by some other claims, then the amount of people affected won't have an impact on the amount of restitution to be paid.
1.8. Con: If a person already is paying the maximum amount of restitution allowed per month \(maximum percentage of income\), the prospect of future convictions won't have the same level of deterrent.
1.8.1. Con: There is still the added deterrent of imprisonment.
1.9. Pro: Restitution could be for lower level offenses, with higher and higher penalties, including jail time, for future offenses.
1.10. Con: It could reduce government revenue because people would pay more in restitution than fines.
1.10.1. Pro: Those are taxes that are necessary to keep the justice and prison system going.