Discussion Title: Should the lottery be banned?

1. The lottery should be banned.
1.1. Con: The revenue raised goes towards various public services.
1.1.1. Pro: In Britain, our [lottery](https://www.national-lottery.co.uk/life-changing/where-the-money-goes) puts 95% of its earnings towards winners, taxes, and good causes. The ethics of gambling aside, it does a huge amount of good for the community and the tax coffers.
1.2. Pro: The lottery and other randomised practices promote non merit-based reward.
1.2.1. Pro: We are giving the wrong message to kids by suggesting that things come without being earned.
1.2.2. Pro: Merit-based reward is an important idea for the proper functioning of society.
1.2.3. Con: You are still buying a ticket when playing the lottery, so you did something to earn a possible reward.
1.3. Pro: The lottery can be addictive.
1.3.1. Con: Just because something has the potential to be addictive doesn't automatically mean it should be banned. Otherwise we'd be banning tobacco, alcohol, caffeine, even the internet and food. All these things are potentially addictive but that doesn't mean we ban them or stop using them.
1.4. Pro: The lottery provides false hope.
1.4.1. Con: The hope of winning the lottery is not a false hope: the chances of winning are well known and accurate.
1.5. Con: If the lottery was immoral, then all other forms of gambling would also be immoral.
1.5.1. Pro: The stock market, for example, can also be considered gambling, since prices of stocks are impossible to determine accurately in advance.
1.6. Pro: People lose money playing the lottery.
1.6.1. Pro: The Casinos are usually quite rich and luxurious. The money they have is the proof that players lost more money there than they won, in average.
1.6.2. Con: There are much worse forms of poverty to tackle before what people lose in gambling.
1.6.3. Con: People lose money in many ways, lottery is only one of them. It is impossible to ban the loss of money.
1.7. Con: There's no need to get into other people's business. If people play the lottery, it's their own choice.
1.8. Con: It's just a game and there is no reason to get in the way of people having fun.
1.9. Con: One person winning something once in a while doesn't have much of an impact in the grand scheme of things, with all of the people in the world.