Discussion Title: Should straight actors play gay roles?

1. Straight actors should not play gay characters.
1.1. Con: Actors are doing what's called "acting". That means by definition they're pretending to be something they are not. If we go by this, the only thing actors could play is themselves.
1.1.1. Pro: The point is that it is ACTING. A good actor \(regardless of how/if he is motivated\) leads the required "suspension of reality" necessary for it to BE acting. As a gay man, I'm interested in whether gay actors receive chances to take roles, but I as an audience member, I want to know that the person chosen for the role can EXPRESS the character as conceived by the writer. If it's a straight actor, so be it! If I was chosen to play a bald Irish guy \(which I am\) I would suck. A pro AND a hairy guy?
1.1.2. Con: Actors who are openly gay are often typecast as gay characters, or otherwise are unable to find work with 'straight' roles. Conversely, straight actors are heralded for playing gay characters as though it represents a challenge. If 'gay can't play straight', then 'straight shouldn't play gay'
1.2. Con: People should not be denied work based on their sexuality.
1.2.1. Pro: It is discriminatory to ask actors that apply for a role to indicate their sexuality.
1.2.2. Pro: If straight actors were prevented from playing gay roles, then it would be logical to prevent gay actors from playing straight roles, which severely limits their career.
1.2.2.1. Con: Giving gay actors preference over straight actors in gay roles does not imply that it must necessarily be done the other way around too.
1.2.2.1.1. Con: In the interest of equality, this could be the only equal decision.
1.3. Con: It should be at the discretion of the director to choose who best suits the role.
1.3.1. Con: Directors might not understand the social perception of a role decision.
1.3.1.1. Con: A director's job depends on their ability to make good decisions. It is in their best interest to make sure they understand the social perceptions of role decisions.
1.3.2. Con: Many films and TV show casts are picked by a [casting director](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Casting_\(performing_arts\)), which means that the actual theatrical director often doesn't have much say in the casting process.
1.3.2.1. Con: The casting director is held accountable to the director. If the casting director makes a bad decision the director is able to override their decision.
1.4. Pro: The impact of gay actors playing gay characters is larger.
1.4.1. Pro: Offering such roles to people who are actually homosexual provides increased job opportunities to an otherwise marginalized demographic.
1.4.2. Con: Influential actors playing gay characters will do infinitely more to further gay representation than unknown gay actors playing gay characters.
1.4.2.1. Pro: Heath Ledger's performance in Brokeback Mountain was nothing short of a watershed moment for the LGBT movement.
1.4.3. Pro: A gay actor playing a gay role can serve as a role model for other gay people, whereas a straight actor cannot.
1.4.4. Con: The impact of gay character is determined mainly by the performance on-screen, not off-screen.
1.5. Pro: Gay people need more visibility, and gay actors playing gay characters would help with that.
1.5.1. Con: Gay people make up a decidedly small portion of the population and filling a role with a gay actor who fits the role may not be possible.
1.6. Pro: The character is more believable if the actor has a personal connection to the role because of their sexuality.
1.6.1. Pro: Gay actors can understand everyday situations a role would encounter. This enables them to be more believeable.
1.6.1.1. Con: Every character has different defining characteristics and nuances; so to assume that an actor can relate wholly to a character just because they're gay is shortsighted.
1.6.2. Con: If an actor is talented, then the character should be equally believable regardless of whether or not the actor has anything in common with their character they're playing.
1.6.2.1. Pro: If an actor has auditioned for the role and gets it, their sexuality shouldn't come into it. Gay actors play straight roles so why shouldn't a straight actor play gay. It comes down to acting ability nothing else.
1.6.3. Con: The sexuality of the actor plays a minor role in how believable a character is.
1.6.3.1. Pro: Good actors perform a variety of tasks that span beyond what is possible to experience for a singular individual. Leonardo DiCaprio, for example, was on the Titanic, made lots of money as thief and survived dozens of lethal situations in the Wild West.
1.6.3.2. Pro: Unless sexuality is a major aspect of the story, it would have a negligible bearing on the plot and thus it wouldn't make a difference what the off-screen sexuality of the actor is.
1.6.4. Pro: If the actor shares their sexuality with the role, the story becomes more believable.
1.7. Con: Gay actors are not necessarily better at portraying a gay character.
1.7.1. Pro: Acting any role \(gay or not\) requires a large set of specific skills. Reducing the scope of casting to a minority reduces the chances of finding an actor with the exact set of skills for the role.
1.7.2. Pro: Gay people are not physically different than other people, so an heterosexual actor  can seem as realistic on-screen as a gay one to play an homosexual character.
1.8. Con: Just because someone hasn't publicly stated they are gay, does not mean they are completely straight
1.9. Con: It does not matter who represents gay people in the media, but simply that there is more representation.
1.9.1. Con: Representation is great provided that it helps facilitate social change and progress; but if LGBTQ actors still have a difficult time landing roles, then clearly that progress isn't being made.
1.9.2. Con: Although it's great that there's been an increase in the number of LGBTQ roles, the constant casting of straight actors in them sends a very clear message from Hollywood that [“We love queer stories, we just don’t want to cast you in them.”](http://junkee.com/gay-roles-straight-actors/143890)