Discussion Title: Should inheritance be abolished?

1. Inheritance should be abolished.
1.1. Con: It is a good thing when one person gives to another person. Inheritance is a form of giving.
1.2. Con: The law would be unenforceable because the wealthy would just use corporations and/or offshore accounts to hold their wealth
1.3. Con: In a free market it should be the earner's right to choose where their money and properties go when they die.
1.4. Con: People work hard to secure the future of their families, it is wrong to stop them from securing their family's future.
1.5. Pro: As people are born equal, the fact that those born to the richest parents get much more than the less well-off without any effort is inherently unfair.
1.6. Con: It will be easy to circumvent the abolition by putting assets in trusts and other business entities. Thus ensuring that your descendants still benefit from you estate. This will also exclude those assets from inheritance tax.
1.7. Con: People could easily just give almost all of their assets to their children before they die so this wouldn't work unless you just want to ban giving gifts.
1.8. Pro: Fights over inheritance drives siblings apart unnecessarily
1.9. Pro: The more money you have the easier it is to make more money \(by investing, rent, etc.\): this means that, over generations, some families will have amassed far more than others because of an unfair advantage.
1.10. Pro: If, instead of inheritance, the property of the deceased goes back to the state, this would provide an enormous new source of funds to eradicate poverty, invest in health and education, and support other social programs and projects that benefit society as a whole.
1.11. Con: It is unfair to parents who might have saved money their entire lives to make their children's lives easier.
1.12. Con: It is better to tax inheritance progressively than to abolish it.
1.12.1. Pro: This is already the case, and works perfectly well.
1.13. Con: Abolishing inheritance might lead to children not treating their parents as well as they would have otherwise.
1.13.1. Con: This is a very pessimistic worldview.
1.14. Con: Inheritance is part of a long-standing link between the different generations of a family and abolishing it would deprive future generations of meaning and a sense of connection to the past.
1.14.1. Pro: Family heirlooms, regardless of their value, are irreplaceable; children should not be barred from accessing them.