Discussion Title: Should There Be An Age Limit On Voting?

1. There should be an age limit on voting.
1.1. Con: The claim that the elderly are lacking knowledge about politics and society is an unfair stereotype.
1.1.1. Pro: Many elderly people spend a lot of time watching or listening to the news, and keeping up with current events.
1.2. Con: Older generations have been granted the democratic right to vote. They should not lose that right because of age.
1.2.1. Con: The right to vote is not absolute. If elderly are unable to make an adequately informed decision as a voter because of their age, they should not be granted that privilege.
1.2.2. Pro: Society considers all conscious adult citizens as equals. The elderly are adult human beings, who are capable of making conscious and informed decisions, and should thus not be considered less equal to other adult citizens.
1.2.3. Con: The fact that elderly are allowed to vote shows the flaws of democracy, as they often represent a large group of the population but are not the group who still works and pays taxes.
1.3. Con: Witnessing decades of changes in governmental power, the elder have the wisdom to make an well-informed decision.
1.3.1. Pro: The elderly may be better able to predict certain societal outcomes dependent on who is in power, based on their experience.
1.3.2. Con: Having wisdom does not mean it will be used wisely. The elderly may do what's within their best interest, instead of looking at the needs of the nation as a whole.
1.4. Pro: Older people are more likely to suffer from cognitive issues which may affect their ability to cast an informed vote.
1.4.1. Pro: Society prevents people under the age of 18 from voting because their cognitive abilities aren't sufficient to make informed decisions. As the cognitive abilities of people decline as the become old, they should also be excluded from the voting process.
1.4.1.1. Con: The limitation is not that of lack of cognitive ability-individuals with mental health problems and those mentally challenged still have the right to vote, so this is not the case. The reasoning is that of a lack of maturity and \(in general\) those under the age of 18 lack the political know-how and maturity to make an informed decision about their political opinions.
1.4.2. Pro: Old people can be affected by the Alzheimer disease, which makes them unreliable to choosing the right decision.
1.4.2.1. Con: Not all older people suffer from Alzheimer disease.
1.4.2.1.1. Con: It may not always be clear who suffers from afflictions such as Alzheimer or a generally deteriorating memory.
1.4.3. Con: That is a reason for why those who suffer from significant cognitive restrictions shouldn't be allowed to vote, not that all old people should be excluded from voting.
1.4.4. Con: This is using age \(A secondary characteristic\) to get at something else that elderly people often \(not always\) share such as failing mental function. In such cases, good policy is to target the primary characteristic. In this example it would be failing mental function.
1.5. Pro: Older people are more likely to be loyal to a specific party without any knowledge about their candidate or their policies.
1.5.1. Con: Older people have seen the politics for longer time, therefore they have more knowledge about the candidates and parties.
1.5.2. Con: People of any age may vote without having knowledge on the candidate they are voting for.
1.5.2.1. Pro: [Low information voters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Low_information_voter) are not of a specific age, but people in general who follow media portrayals of candidates as their main source of info than doing deeper research from many sources.
1.5.3. Pro: They are more likely to be out of touch with modern society \(e.g. technology and social issues\), hence they would not be able to make an informed decision.
1.6. Con: Many elderly already feel like they're considered to be a burden upon society and that they're worthless. Taking away elderly peoples' right to vote would further stigmatize an already disenfranchised group of society.
1.6.1. Pro: Elderly have a lot less autonomy over their lives as their bodies are more frail and restricted.
1.6.2. Con: Just as the elderly should lose their right to drive cars if they're no longer able to drive competently, they should lose their right to vote if they're no longer able to make a competent decision as a voter, regardless of how this makes them feel.
1.7. Con: Who is elected may create/remove policies which directly negatively affect the elderly. Allowing the elderly to vote ensures politicians may not freely do this.
1.7.1. Con: The young voters also feel concerned with policies that affect the elderly, because in the future they will be old too. So the young voters will make sure to protect the rights of the elderly.
1.7.1.1. Con: Young voters do not vote as consistently as the older generation. Therefore, a considerable amount of votes will be lost.
1.7.1.1.1. Pro: In [2015](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2016/sep/23/voting-turnout-gap-between-old-and-young-widening-report), 67% of baby boomers voted, in comparison to 46% of millennials of voting age.
1.7.2. Pro: Elders make up a significant portion of the voters and can therefore have a lot of influence on the outcome of an election.
1.7.3. Pro: Younger generations are not affected as much by things like retirement policy. Elderly people are a constituency with unique interests.
1.8. Pro: The elderly are out of touch with the needs of modern society.
1.8.1. Pro: The elderly do not have the proper knowledge and understanding of what younger generations need with today's every changing social climate.
1.8.2. Con: The elderly are still a part of modern society. Being older does not automatically mean they are not informed.
1.8.3. Con: In 2030, baby boomers are projected to [outnumber](https://www.census.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2018/cb18-41-population-projections.html) children for the first time in US history. Their needs are thus an important part of modern society, and growing.
1.9. Con: Older people have more experience, so they are more likely to be wiser than younger generations.
1.9.1. Con: Age doesn't necessitate wisdom.
1.10. Pro: Relative to the rest of the population, the elderly will not be affected by the election for as long, due to their age.
1.10.1. Con: The elderly will be affected by the results of the election for as long as they live, which can be much longer than the political terms of office.
1.11. Pro: The elderly are more likely to have views that contradict the views of society. Some examples may be racism or homophobia. This can affect their voting.
1.11.1. Pro: People become stuck with certain views as they grow older and are less open to change, while norms and values of societies are always fluid and progressing. This makes the perspective of elders incompatible with the progression of society.
1.11.2. Con: Voting is a way to change the society. Agents of change do have contradicting views.
1.11.3. Con: People should be allowed to use their personal bias, whether justified or not, to inform their voting decision