Discussion Title: Should US Colleges Allow Concealed Carry?

1. Should US Colleges Allow Concealed Carry?
1.1. Con: If there are more weapons on colleges the likelihood of gun related accidents increases.
1.1.1. Pro: Nobody is perfect, especially not students who may be vulnerable to peer pressure \(to, say, show off\) and similar difficulties.
1.2. Pro: Self defense is a faster response than local police.
1.2.1. Con: Faster, but not necessarily more effective.
1.2.2. Pro: By the time police arrive, the death count of a shooter could have grown considerably: if they can be eliminated quickly that could save untold numbers of lives.
1.2.2.1. Pro: The deaths in the entire [Columbine High School Massacre](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columbine_High_School_massacre) occurred in the space of fifteen minutes.
1.3. Con: Individuals who conceal carry could make others uncomfortable.
1.3.1. Pro: Many do not support the normalisation of guns in campuses, and knowing they could be held by anybody, secretly, would be horrifying to such people.
1.3.2. Pro: To know that guns are in easy circulation is frightening; students may justifiably fear for their safety.
1.4. Pro: Some people conceal carry for personal safety and feel better when they have one with them.
1.4.1. Con: This doesn't mean it should be allowed; 'feeling better' is not an excuse for increasing the amount of guns on campuses.
1.4.1.1. Con: "Feeling uncomfortable" is likewise no reason to prohibit concealed carrying.
1.4.2. Pro: Carrying a gun is an extension of personal freedom to defend oneself; removing it would be unreasonable in a climate where shootings can and do take place.
1.5. Pro: Allowing concealed carry supports the Second Amendment, particularly when referring to private colleges.
1.5.1. Con: The fact that the Second Amendment allows it does not mean it should be encouraged or permitted on individual school grounds.
1.5.1.1. Pro: The Second Amendment may need to be re-examined if it can be interpreted to suggest that college students can or should carry guns.
1.6. Con: Colleges with small campuses could easily use hired security.
1.6.1. Pro: This stops the need for students to carry guns at all, and ensures that those dealing with security threats are trained appropriately for that type of situation.
1.7. Pro: [Conceal carry licenses](https://www.usacarry.com/concealed_carry_permit_information.html) are only given after training courses in most states.
1.7.1. Con: This isn't sufficient to justify such a drastic measure.
1.7.2. Con: This is usually training to use and maintain a live weapon, not how to manage a live incident with an active shooter; the difference is huge, and students are unlikely to have that speciality.
1.8. Pro: Properly trained persons could save many lives.
1.8.1. Con: Students are unlikely to be properly trained given they spend the majority of their time studying.
1.8.2. Con: Improperly trained persons could cause havoc; this depends wholly on training, which is not always sufficient. Certainly, training is unlikely to be sufficient to cover life-or-death situations as suggested.
1.8.3. Pro: -> See 1.2.2.
1.8.4. Con: Improperly trained persons would be almost as dangerous as the active shooter.
1.8.4.1. Pro: Inserting more guns does not fix the problem. The ability to shoot back comes with a person constantly carrying the ability to escalate the lethality of the situation completely, and is not wise in an era characterized by paranoia and uncertainty.