Discussion Title: Should Teachers Be Allowed To Wear Religious Symbols At School?

1. Teachers should not be allowed to wear religious symbols at school
1.1. Con: The US constitution supports free choice of religion.
1.1.1. Con: That does not mean that the government needs to support wearing religious symbols -- allowing Islam does not mean that the government has to support circumcision.
1.1.1.1. Con: There is a vast difference between religious and cultural behaviours, and wearing tokens of said religions.
1.1.1.2. Con: Supporting is not the same as allowing.
1.1.2. Pro: Schools should be inclusive of all religions, not a religion-free zone.
1.1.2.1. Con: Some religions teach concepts like [creationism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creationism) that are explicitly opposed to the ideas of secular learning. Allowing schools to be inclusive of such ideas undermines secular education itself.
1.1.3. Con: There are many practises whose legality is entirely dependent on context.
1.1.3.1. Pro: In the context of an educational environment, a teacher can not be impartial when teaching a subject if she/he openly takes sides.
1.1.4. Con: This assumes a US-centric world-view. Other countries' constitutions have very different stances on this matter and that should be taken into consideration.
1.1.5. Con: Teachers wearing religious symbols would not negatively impact students' free choice.  In fact, students' freedom of religious choice may be enhanced by awareness of people in their community who follow different faiths other than that of their parents.
1.1.5.1. Con: If students have several teachers representing and showing off different beliefs, it might be OK to allow religious symbols at school - but particularly the younger children tend to have only few teachers and have one headteacher who tends to have a big impact on the students. In addition it is likely that in many schools a strong majority of the teachers belong to the same faith.
1.1.5.1.1. Con: The fact that a school might not have teachers with different religions shouldn't be a valid argument.  It's like saying individuals of a given ethnicity are allowed only if there are individuals of others.

The rightness or wrongness of wearing religious symbols should be applied to all religions, indifferent of the majority or the non existence of other religions in a given school.  Otherwise it's discrimination.
1.1.6. Con: The Constitution forbids the government from establishing religion.
1.1.6.1. Con: An individual teacher wearing a religious symbol is not a government establishment of religion.
1.1.6.2. Pro: Forbidding the wearing of religious paraphernalia, such as crosses and kippahs would be establishing a religion of atheism, or more strongly anti-theism.
1.1.6.2.1. Con: Not wearing any religious symbols does not make a teacher or a school supportive of any religion. Just like not wearing any sports symbols does not make a teacher supportive of any sports club.
1.1.6.2.2. Con: Not showing to which party I belong does not show that I am against parties.
1.1.7. Pro: Actually the constitution protects a person’s “free exercise” of religion. While they might be partially federally subsidized, schools are not federal property, nor are teachers federal employees. Therefore, barring them from wearing religious symbols could be considered unconstitutional.
1.1.8. Pro: As long as the manner in which they display their religious object is not tied to the education system the teachers, as individuals, should still have the same protection under the constitution which supports the freedom to practice their own religion.
1.1.8.1. Con: A teacher should not be allowed to "practice" religion at school - the teacher can do so at home. A teacher can also not practice shooting at school and any other hobby he might have. The teacher is protected -- and can practice at home.
1.1.8.1.1. Con: This comparison is invalid. Hobbies, such as shooting, are not protected under U.S. law, but Religion is protected.

The constitution states: ["Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof..."](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Separation_of_church_and_state_in_the_United_States)

Therefore, the existence of such a law preventing teachers from "practicing" their religion in a school, especially if such practice is as minimal as wearing jewelry, is inherently unconstitutional.
1.2. Pro: Children in particular can be easily influenced, therefore a teacher wearing a religious symbol is likely to have an impact on the child's choice of religion.
1.2.1. Con: Children in school are exposed to a wide range of viewpoints on topics like religion, culture, race, etc. and being taught tolerance and compassion. At home, they are frequently only given the viewpoint that "Well, that's not our religion, so it is wrong!" Seeing a religious symbol worn by a teacher is not a patently bad thing; it could be an opportunity for learning about a new viewpoint.
1.2.2. Con: This would be a good thing in the opinion of many.
1.2.3. Con: Children are unlikely to understand the meaning of symbols unless explained to them. And since this is not taught in public schools, they would learn this elsewhere, such as their families or church. So merely showing a religious symbol would not influence children's beliefs.
1.2.3.1. Con: Certainly children associate with these symbols something - they have learned to do so from all of their contacts like friends, family, school. Therefore the religious symbols have impact on them - independent on whether the meaning of these symbols have been taught in class.
1.2.4. Con: Preventing innocent and unobtrusive expression of faith by an individual is itself an act disfavoring one set of beliefs and privileging a different set of beliefs \(the lack of belief\).
1.2.4.1. Con: It is wrong that the lack of a religious belief is a belief. The lack of warmth is not warmth, the lack of money does not make you rich.
1.2.4.1.1. Pro: Depends on your definition of belief. If your definition is "a religious conviction" then you are right, then unorganized atheism is not a religious belief.
1.2.4.1.2. Con: Depends on your definition of belief. If your definition is  "something one accepts as true or real; a firmly held opinion or conviction" then atheism certain is a belief.
1.2.4.1.2.1. Pro: This is especially true when there is no scientific proof of something.  While there's no scientific proof \(as in using scientific method\) of the existence of a god, there is also no scientific proof to the contrary.  The burden of proof falls under whomever makes any of those claims.
So until that happens, atheism is also a belief.
1.2.4.1.3. Con: Organized atheism acts similar to religion, and is similar enough to a religious belief to be called one.
1.2.4.1.3.1. Con: Maybe a fundamental difference between the attitude of a religious believer and an atheist is the openness to arguments - including arguments gathered via KIALO :-\).
1.2.4.1.3.1.1. Con: Both ways of thinking have individuals with the same lack of openness.  The difference is that there are more people with religion than atheists.
It can be argued that some atheists' unquestionable dogma is the non existence of a god when there is no scientific proof of either existence or non existence.
1.2.4.1.3.1.1.1. Con: An atheist would be open to strong evidence that there is a god. The view of an atheist is \(or should be\) to be open to evidence, but not claim the existence of something without evidence.
1.2.4.1.3.1.1.1.1. Con: They also cannot claim the non existence of something without evidence.  The claim still goes both ways.
1.2.4.1.3.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Atheists do not necessarily claim that they know anything, but they demand that people should not claim anything without evidence.
1.2.4.1.3.2. Con: Organized atheism does not really exist, as there is no leader and not much organization -- there are mainly discussion groups without much of a structure.
1.2.4.2. Con: Creating neutral ground does not favor those who are already neutral, rather it sets a standard which is acceptable for everyone.
1.2.5. Pro: Religious belief is not based on fact, it is based on feelings. A sensitive child may be traumatized if convinced by their religious environment that a deceased relative is burning in hell for being a non-believer.
1.2.6. Pro: Teachers in public institutions should uphold their commitment to secular education, and avoid any attempts to impart their personal religious beliefs to young, impressionable minds.  Their educational credentials should lead the way; not their faith-based feelings. We shouldn't tolerate teaching as an extension of the pulpit.
1.2.6.1. Pro: A teacher should not be the first to bring up the subject of religion. If a child asks why her protestant cross doesn't have Jesus, she can explain that, but she can't just start talking about why it lacks Jesus for no reason. Teaching is okay, preaching is not.
1.2.6.1.1. Pro: As long as the person is not verbally imposing their beliefs on others, it should not matter.
1.2.6.1.1.1. Pro: What the teacher actually says and teaches will have far more influence on the child than what the teacher wears. Therefore, ensuring that the subject matter taught is neutral is far more important than restricting teachers' rights to wear the jewelry they desire.
1.2.7. Con: This is true though it puts the onus on society \(parents and teachers\) to educate children to think openly and critical, to question the world around them and make informed choices. Arguably this would provided a firmer foundation for education than instilling facts for passing examinations which can often arise as a teaching principal without focus on critical analysis.
1.2.8. Pro: Children should be able to choose their belief freely.
1.2.8.1. Con: They can choose it any time through their life.
1.2.8.2. Con: Yes, but the fact that a teacher might wear a cross, etc. does not prevent the child from choosing their beliefs.
1.2.8.2.1. Con: But the teacher does influence the decision of the child.
1.2.8.2.1.1. Con: If parents don't take an active role in the education of a child anything can influence them.  Not necessarily a teacher, also a classmate.  Ultimately it's the parents' job to promote or filter out what a child learns at school if they consider it against their values.
1.2.9. Con: In an educational setting, a person is expected to be exposed to differing points of view without having to go to "safe spaces". Such exposure opens discussions. Discussion breaks down barriers, which hopefully, allows for more tolerance. By limiting one's religious jewelry and clothing, we encroach upon a person's freedom of speech. If we are going to limit what a person can wear because of religion, hate speech, etc., then we should make ALL clothing, jewelry, et al., bland.
1.2.10. Con: I don't think items that can be considered jewelry should be automatically considered religious statements by a teacher or an attempt by the teacher to influence their students.
1.2.11. Con: Awareness of a range of beliefs does not impact freedom of choice of the individual.
1.2.11.1. Pro: A child should be free to choose any religion, and for him to choose, he should know different types of religion.
1.2.11.1.1. Con: Then the school should teach about different religions, not prohibit individuals to express their own.
1.2.11.2. Con: If we do not at all learn about different religions, there is nothing to choose from. So the freedom of choice is impacted very much.
1.2.11.2.1. Con: One doesn't ensure freedom of choice by promoting the subject's ignorance of options.
1.2.12. Con: -> See 1.2.6.1.1.
1.3. Con: Separation of church and state within public schools is broken every single morning during the Pledge of Allegiance, which contains the assertion "under God". If students are encouraged and sometimes forced to say the pledge, and taught the words before they truly understand what they mean, then it is hypocritical to say a teacher cannot wear a religious symbol.
1.3.1. Con: Forcing someone to say the pledge is illegal and has been [ruled as such since the 1940s](https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/319/624/) by a 6-3 decision by the US Supreme Court.
1.3.2. Con: If you truly believe there is a single way to the true purpose of life and to an eternal one you will implicitly are \(and ought to be according to one's own belief set\) encouraging others to pursue the path. Whether they are trying to influence is not the point, it is making sure they are not forcibly indoctrinating while keeping their own freedoms.
1.3.3. Con: This separation needs to be enforced and only a very small part of it is to restrict religious symbols in schools.
1.3.4. Pro: Religion in school already exists, so there is no need to censor teachers' rights to wear religious symbols.
1.4. Con: Banning religious symbols will discriminate against religions that have open display of symbols as an important aspect of it. Sikhs have their turbans \(and some adherents don't cut their hair\), Orthodox Jews have similar clothing, and Muslims have head coverings.
1.5. Con: Children will know what the belief system of their teachers are - even if the teacher does not explicitly state it.
1.5.1. Con: This is absurd; personal beliefs do not come into it in the slightest when teaching. If they do, that is a lack on the part of the teacher.
1.5.2. Con: Some people wear crosses because they like how it looks or because it was a gift or because of pressure by family. Some may even be wearing it sarcastically \(a satanist wearing a cross\). Wearing the symbol does not necessarily reflect the opinions of the viewers.
1.5.3. Con: This is not necessarily the case; a teacher's personal affiliations - religious, political or otherwise - need not be disclosed to children.
1.5.3.1. Pro: Children will not necessarily know the religion of the teacher - particularly if the teacher is a STEM teacher. But they are likely to know the religion of the teacher if the teacher teaches history or politics or ethics. If you teach ethics, history or politics you will have to touch religious topics. The way you talk about a religion tends to give away, whether you agree with it or not. If you teach STEM you will not talk about religion and therefore not disclose your belief.
1.5.3.1.1. Con: Not all STEM fields are immune to this issue as you say.

Something like Mathematics or Engineering may very well be religiously insulated, but something like Biology or even Physics inherently touch the barrier between religion and Atheism.
1.5.3.1.1.1. Pro: The question how the universe was created or how life was created might well lead to a discussion about the existence of God.
1.5.3.2. Pro: One could even say that, given the current laws, the teachers affiliations should not be disclosed to children.
1.5.3.2.1. Con: There is no current law or generic rule that supports that kind of statement.
1.5.4. Pro: When you wear a symbol that is meaningful to you, you are setting a positive example to take pride in your perspective, even if it is a minority point of view.
1.6. Con: There shouldn't be a blanket ban on religious symbols but there should be limits set on what is permissible. For instance, Satanism is a religion and Satanic symbols shouldn't be allowed.
1.7. Con: All people should be able to express what they want to express.
1.7.1. Con: Not belonging to a religious faith is like not belonging to a political party - it is a form of neutrality. And it is this form of neutrality we should demand from teachers. We do not allow teachers to show their affiliation with a political party either.
1.7.1.1. Con: There is no such thing as a person who does not belong to a religious faith. Atheism is a religious belief that there is no God. Also it is possible to indoctrinate a religious adherence to an idea, such as capitalism or socialism, which could cause that to become a student's religion, all without using any established religious symbols.
1.7.1.1.1. Pro: Allowing religious symbols to be worn includes the wearing of atheism symbols, e.g. the 'single stroke circled A' or the 'Darwin fish' \(the one with legs\). Children will encounter that option too, which is a good thing.
1.7.1.2. Pro: Religious neutrality in schools does not mean that there should be no religion in schools. Religious doctrine must not be taught as fact, a particular religion can't be favored, etc., but that does not mean all religion should be scrubbed from the school experience. To do so would be to warp history, literature, and cultural studies. The original premise of this thread is misinformed.
1.7.1.3. Con: Religious symbols should be treated like any other symbols of preference, like a favorite band or sports club, or a hobby. If teachers are allowed to show their musical and sports preference and their hobby, they are also allowed to show their favorite faith. No special treatment for religion.
1.7.1.3.1. Con: There is special treatment for membership of political parties - religion might be even more important than politics and thus should be treated similarly.
1.7.1.3.2. Pro: Religion is also a form of culture and as such is an integral part of an individual.  Denying reasonable expressions of religion is denying culture as well.
1.7.1.3.2.1. Con: This is certainly true. Cultures need to change too in a society in which all \(e.g. men and women\) have equal rights. Religions do often have a problem with this - and cultures have the same problem.
1.7.1.3.2.1.1. Con: Agreed, there are cultural elements that need to change, but change is not achieved through forcing individuals to hide their culture or their religion in this case.
1.7.1.4. Con: It is possible to be religiously neutral at school while being affiliated to a religion as much as it is possible to be politically neutral in school while being affiliated to a political party.
1.7.1.5. Con: The fact that a teacher is wearing religious or secular symbols does not detract from teaching critical or religious thinking.
1.7.1.5.1. Con: There seems to be a slight contradiction between critical thinking and religious belief; showing a religious symbol may demonstrate that the teacher is unprepared for true critical thinking.
1.7.1.5.1.1. Con: This is assuming that religious people are incapable of critical thinking, which is contrary to what experience has shown: [en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Christians_in_science_and_technology)

The fact that in the recent centuries there have been influential scientists that have a religion doesn't support the claim that religion makes people incapable of critical thinking.

See the case of Georges Lemaitre, the original proposer of the Big Bang theory: [en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georges_Lema%C3%AEtre)
1.7.1.5.1.1.1. Con: Indeed there have been lots of critical thinkers that were also religious. So it is certainly true, that critical thinking can come together with religious beliefs. There are many types of religious beliefs. The "God of the gap" is an example of religious belief that does not collide with critical thinking or with science. Believing in the way the bible explains the creation does collide with science.
1.7.1.5.1.1.1.1. Con: "Believing in the way the bible explains the creation does collide with science"

This is true only if the specific bible passages are taken literally.  Some denominations of christianity have a more critical interpretation of the Bible, which supports the previous thesis that religion doesn't prevent critical thinking.
1.7.1.5.1.2. Con: Many people come to religious belief through deep and thorough critical thinking. To say that religious symbols indicate a lack of the ability to think critically is saying that Allan Rex Sandage, who discovered the quasar, is unable to be a great thinker because he said, "[If there is no God, nothing makes sense.](http://www.leaderu.com/truth/1truth15.html)"
1.7.2. Pro: Schools should foster, not stifle, self expression, among both their teachers and their students.
1.7.2.1. Con: Self expression is good when it is verbal - not when it is physical.
1.7.2.2. Pro: Most religious symbols are unobtrusive and do not interfere with staff dress codes.
1.7.3. Pro: It is not just a matter of freedom of expression, but also cultural habits and, for some, the feeling of protection and blessing when carrying such symbols.
1.7.3.1. Pro: Religious symbols or items of clothing are worn for the wearer's own personal comfort or fulfillment, not to promote that religion or to try and influence others' religious decisions.
1.7.3.2. Pro: If someone decides to carry the pride flag around with them, are you going to tell them to put it away?  No, so let them wear the cross in peace it’s their faith.
1.7.3.3. Con: That feeling is more important for children than teachers; if there is any risk that children may not feel protected or blessed, then the teachers should forego their own.
1.7.4. Pro: Even if we accept that teachers wearing religious symbols is an infringement of students' right to learn in neutral environment, it is a bigger infringement of teachers' right to live their religion.
1.7.4.1. Con: To live a religion has very little to do with wearing a cross, or any other religious symbol. The live a religion is to follow the thinking or guidelines that a religion is made of. This might be to be helpful, to be tolerant, to be peaceful, ...
1.7.5. Con: This principle should not apply to teachers. For example, teachers who may have racist beliefs should not be allowed to express these beliefs. What teachers say can have lasting effects on children.
1.7.5.1. Con: Expressing racism is not comparable to wearing religious symbols.
1.7.6. Pro: To say that a person cannot identify something that they believe in is censorship at it's worst. Wearing something around your students that identifies a belief whether it be religious or likewise is a personal preference. If we are going to go to this extreme, we should force all teachers to not wear jewellery or any form of decoration as it may imply something. The message that we would be sending to our students is that you don't have the right to express yourself because I don't either.
1.7.7. Con: Teachers should not be able to manipulate the religious beliefs of children in a public school setting. Opinionated expression in public schools can give a teacher a platform to have power outside the child's school life.
1.7.7.1. Con: True, but wearing a cross, etc. does not constitute an 'opinionated expression.'
1.7.8. Con: -> See 1.2.6.1.
1.7.9. Con: Completely inclusive terms such as 'all' lack the nuance needed to make policy. Not all people are legally or morally permitted to express themselves in whatever way they want; terrorism in all its kinds is a form of self-expression
1.7.10. Con: An exception would be private institution, on this topic private schools. Privately, in a liberal society, we can associate with whoever we want, this means private schools can implement dress codes as they see fit. For example, a Catholic school might not allow others on their property to wear symbols of other religions.
1.7.11. Pro: It should be fine as long as they are not forcing their religion upon anyone.
1.7.11.1. Pro: There is a clear distinction between wearing religious symbols and exhorting your religion onto others. Wearing a religious symbol does not violate anyone else's rights.
1.7.11.1.1. Con: Wearing a religious symbol is a form of expression that endorses a religion just like words would. If vocal religious endorsement is not allowed inside the classroom, this should not either.
1.7.12. Pro: Such a policy violates the teacher's freedom of religion.
1.7.12.1. Con: The teacher can still believe anything they like.
1.7.12.1.1. Con: Prohibition of religious symbols at school is persecution.
1.7.12.1.2. Con: Religion is not just a collection of unactionable opinions. Simply believing is not a sufficient form of practice in the majority of religions. It also involves rituals, activities and symbols.
1.7.12.2. Pro: Wearing religious symbols/dress is a UN international Human right, as ratified by 196 states. [The text](https://www.equalityhumanrights.com/en/human-rights-act/article-9-freedom-thought-belief-and-religion) specifies exclusions, and those exclusions do not include teaching.
1.7.12.3. Pro: Some religious symbols are not optional for the followers of that religion.
1.7.12.4. Con: Teachers have a duty of care towards vulnerable children. This outweighs their rights towards free expression of religion.
1.7.12.5. Pro: This policy would violate the teacher's First Amendment rights.
1.8. Pro: Traditionally children have little or no choice of their religion.
1.8.1. Con: Children have really no choice on anything until they can reason for themselves, that's what education is all about.  They can still change their religion or lack thereof when they have enough knowledge to do so.
1.8.1.1. Con: Learning to reason is a process -- children learn more and more to reason and to build their own opinions. Adults tend to underestimate how well children can understand and reason.
1.8.1.1.1. Con: Reason is one thing and knowledge is another.  The more knowledge one has, the better the reasoned choices one can make.  Thus children might be able to make choices but not the best ones with the knowledge they have, that's why they don't get a driver's license until they are grown, and why other important decisions \(such as health, education and religion\) are made by their parents until they can make them on their own.
1.8.1.1.1.1. Pro: Religion is a special case, as beliefs cannot be decided by others, not even by the child who believes. Children can only be "enrolled" in a church - but they might not believe in the corresponding religion and nobody can decide what they believe.
1.8.1.1.2. Pro: Children start to use reason somewhere between 8 and 10 years old, allowing them to grasp more complex topics.
1.8.1.1.3. Con: Children who have not reached the age of approximately 8 still learn mostly by mimicking and role models.
1.8.2. Con: This is not necessarily a good thing.
1.8.2.1. Pro: Certainly any individual needs to have free choice of religion - but such a complex choice we can only make when we are adults.
1.8.3. Con: Peer pressure is usually from [peers](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/1549711/Children-learn-most-from-peers-not-parents.html) or [family](http://www.child-encyclopedia.com/parenting-skills/according-experts/parents-attitudes-and-beliefs-their-impact-childrens-development).  Teacher pressure only comes into play when a [teacher](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/05/parents-political-beliefs/361462/) is [actively](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religion_and_children) promoting a religion, not from wardrobe choices.
1.8.4. Pro: The pressure to conform with a certain faith, that might exist at home, might be supported by a teacher who also demonstrates belonging to this faith.
1.8.4.1. Con: It might also demonstrate belonging to a different faith than the one taught at home, thus increasing the child's exposure to different ideas.
1.8.4.2. Con: Whether or not the teacher's symbol supports, or opposes, what the child is taught at home should not lead to restricting the teacher's rights to jewelry, headgear or other religious tokens.
1.8.5. Con: -> See 1.1.5.
1.9. Con: There are many teachers at school, and students can see that there are alternatives.
1.9.1. Pro: Allowing teachers wear religious symbols at school promotes harmony and tolerance.
1.9.2. Con: At most schools a single confession has the vast majority.
1.9.3. Pro: Teachers should keep it unobtrusive and, if it comes up in the conversation, the teacher should say that there are many religions in the world and this symbol represents hers.
1.9.3.1. Pro: A good teacher will inspire curiosity in a child. Wearing a religious symbol that the child is unfamiliar with may inspire the child to learn more about the world.
1.9.4. Con: A teacher with whom a child is especially close has more influence over him/her and can more easily sway the child's opinion.
1.9.5. Pro: Teachers alter lessons and omit certain activities to better meet the needs of a diverse religious population. For example because some religions do not celebrate Halloween, teachers alter art activities or remove the activity or books if they do not reflect the beliefs of the students, even if it is one student. With this respect that is shown, teachers should have the same respect shown to their beliefs, jewelry, and garb.
1.9.6. Pro: Some traditional headgear and clothing are not merely symbols and are not really for displaying one's affiliation but rather for upholding one's traditional lifestyle. These should be permitted and welcomed for teachers to wear as an example to children of unity in diversity.
1.9.7. Pro: Children should learn to be comfortable around people with differing belief systems.
1.10. Pro: Children have a right to learn in a religiously neutral setting.
1.10.1. Con: That is really up to their parents. What there shouldn't be is indoctrination contrary to what the parents want.
1.10.2. Con: It can be religiously neutral without banning jewelry that contains religious symbols. Religiously neutral means there is no bias for or against a particular religion and no bias for or against atheism.
1.10.3. Con: Identification with and expression of a religion are different from the indoctrination of a religion. The former allows for the gaining of knowledge by providing a basis for inquiry. Ironically, not allowing the wearing of religious symbols and the indoctrination of a religion have the same effect; eliminating the option of gaining knowledge. If we do not promote the gaining of knowledge, then what is the point of offering education in the first place?
1.10.3.1. Con: Certainly children need to be taught about religions in order to understand our world - they also need to be taught about different cultures and about different times \(History\). This all can and needs to be done in a neutral informative way - no indoctrination should be allowed.
1.10.4. Con: Teachers should not \(and indeed cannot realistically\) be expected to be neutral. They can however be expected to foster a climate of neutrality in their classrooms. Fostering neutrality starts with acknowledging that no one is neutral and truly being OK with that.
1.10.5. Con: That reasoning could potentially be used to prevent children from expressing their religious beliefs in order to maintain a "neutral setting".
1.10.6. Con: There is no such thing as a religiously neutral setting.
1.10.6.1. Con: There certainly is a religiously neutral setting: Jeans and t-shirts for all without printings on them.
1.10.6.2. Pro: This is similar to saying that there is no justice - but that does not mean that we should not try to achieve it.
1.10.7. Con: There is no basis to say that children have this right.
1.10.7.1. Con: It could be argued that, because children are generally impressionable and likely to believe what they are told, an educational setting which is not religiously neutral violates their right to freedom of religion.