Discussion Title: Should School be Mandatory?

1. School should be mandatory.
1.1. Con: Education should be mandatory, but the construct of any one "school" setting should not be.
1.1.1. Con: Mandating "education" would leave the state the authority to define education; and defeat the purpose of keeping government out of the business of telling people what to think. Any voucher \(or mandated "tax" of forcing one to pay for a school\) would de facto make any school which accepts vouchers or is allowed to educate a public school.
1.1.2. Con: Schools are a means of standardizing education and making sure that all children are educated well and to ensure equal opportunities.
1.1.2.1. Con: Modern society is highly specialized, and requires specialized, not standardized, workers and citizens.
1.1.3. Pro: [Home schooled](https://elearningindustry.com/educational-alternatives-schools-cant-things-around-kids) kids have been proven to be as intelligent or even brighter than what conventionally schooled kids are. Home schooling therefore, is a reasonable alternative to schooling.
1.1.4. Pro: Schools are not apt at imparting proper education.
1.1.4.1. Pro: Schools often have overcrowded classrooms which lead to resources being stretched and teacher's jobs becoming more difficult.
1.1.4.1.1. Pro: According to a [national survey](https://www.smh.com.au/education/no-pencils-no-lunch-why-teachers-dip-into-their-own-pockets-20181025-p50bs5.html) 93% of teachers purchase supplies for their school or students. Making a teacher's job more difficult.
1.1.4.2. Pro: Schools group children by age and not necessarily by merit, which either means that weaker students are left out or that too much time is spent on them at the expense of better students.
1.2. Pro: Mandatory schooling ensures that all children have an equal start.
1.2.1. Con: A variety of external factors, especially home life, can affect the success of children in school.  Even though children may receive the same schooling, they are not necessarily on equal footing.
1.2.1.1. Con: Even so, compulsory schooling mitigates inequalities that result from things such as a child's home environment. Without it, children would have no way to escape such inequalities.
1.2.1.1.1. Con: Undoubtedly so, but this does not require school to be mandatory. It stands to reason that young people who engage voluntarily with school are best positioned to benefit from it.
1.2.2. Con: By this logic private schools should also be illegal since they don't give children an "equal start". Parents have the right to give their children as many advantages as they are capable of giving.
1.2.2.1. Con: Public school does not create universal equality for citizens in terms of education- rather, it provides a baseline education that all students receive, whether or not parents are able to provide further opportunities.
1.2.2.2. Pro: Some private schools should indeed be illegal. Children do not chose the circumstances of their birth, and should thus not bear the burden of their parents' finances or poor choices.
1.2.3. Pro: Public schooling ensures that children from all backgrounds at least have access to similar resources such as teachers when it comes to education.
1.2.4. Con: The sources of inequality in education is price and location, not whether or not it's mandatory.
1.2.5. Con: It is well known that schools in the United States are unequally funded \(by property taxes\), hence are inherently unequal.
1.2.6. Con: The quality of the schooling in question plays almost as big a part in a child's success as the fact of being enrolled in school or not.
1.2.6.1. Pro: Public schools that are located in elite areas tend to have more resources and provide children with a better quality of education as opposed to schools located in impoverished communities.
1.2.6.2. Pro: Forcing students that are determinedly disruptive and anti-education to attend school for 12 or more years degrades the education of all the students attending their disrupted classes.
1.2.7. Pro: Schools can be an arena where children of different classes and backgrounds can meet and become acquainted – giving poorer children access to more resourceful networks, and thus fighting social inequality.
1.2.7.1. Con: There is some evidence suggesting that people gain more skill and improve their own capacity quicker by working with people at the same approximate level  of skill and knowledge, and that initial gaps in student ability frequently become wider over time.

[Affirmative Action and University Fit: Evidence from Proposition 209 Peter Arcidiacono, Esteban Aucejo, Patrick Coate, V. Joseph Hotz](https://www.nber.org/papers/w18523.pdf)
1.2.7.2. Con: Only if schools take in a cohort from a wide range of backgrounds. Most schools, however, serve the community or catchment area that they are located in, and little beyond. The rich do not educate their children alongside the children of the poor.
1.3. Con: It is against the integrity and freedom of a child.
1.3.1. Con: Allowing children to “choose” to not develop intellectually or to enter into labor relationships at a young age can also be viewed as a violation of their integrity.
1.3.2. Pro: Schooling very often involves forcing children to spend time in a specific room, at a specific desk, doing specific things. Unless one actually involves shackles, it doesn't get much more un-free than that.
1.3.3. Con: Children are not entirely capable of being responsible for themselves, which requires knowledge of the world.
1.3.3.1. Pro: Parents assume responsibility for their children because children are not capable of making long term decisions like choosing not to be educated. Children have no idea what that choice would mean for them twenty years later. Parents do. One can't give an eight year old free range to do as they will. Their choices are mulled by ignorance of a world they have not yet been a part of long enough to understand.
1.3.3.2. Pro: By lack of experience and maturity \(also education!\) children are more likely to pick short-term benefit \("I'm not going because school is boring"\) over long term benefit, possibly doing irreversible damage to their lives, such as losing access to higher education.
1.3.3.3. Con: Different children have different talents, interests and needs. Individual children and parents are more familiar with these than the politicians and public servants who make decisions about schools.
1.4. Con: There is no agreement on the purpose and function of schooling. Making it mandatory therefore seems bizarre.
1.4.1. Con: As long as there is agreement that school is necessary, there can also be agreement that it's necessary to make it mandatory. This is not bizarre.
1.4.2. Pro: An effective school should have the purpose of providing the greatest utility for students, to find useful and rewarding work in adulthood, and serve the community as a whole by educating people to do the things that are needed and useful to society. While there are a lot of "nice-to-haves," we must identify the key subjects that provide the best opportunities for children. Unfortunately, so much time is spent debating this, that no decision is made and kids are exposed to a chaotic experience.
1.4.3. Con: This is untrue. Many countries, like the [US](https://www.ed.gov/essa) and the [UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/statutory-guidance-schools) have legislation on school and a degree of standardization that defines learning goals.
1.4.4. Con: School stakeholders are too diverse to reach universal agreements, such as what will be for the best "benefit of the child".  Given this reality, schooling has become a democratic compromise that has typically attempted to approximate ideals such as Dewey's \(just look at typical school mission statements\), but controversy and disagreements about purposes or best practices are unavoidable.
1.4.5. Pro: Per John Dewey, schooling should be for the benefit of the child; however, in practice, the apparent purpose is rather different, and quite controversial.
1.4.5.1. Con: It's obvious that in society, schooled children have obvious advantages, such as a better general education on many topics their parents can't teach \(i.e. sex ed\) and gives them access to higher education; overall, statistically, resulting in a much higher standard of live - which is a clear benefit for the child.
1.5. Con: Mandatory schooling can too easily infringe upon parents' rights to raise their children in accordance with their family's social and/or religious paradigms.
1.5.1. Con: Voluntarily living in a country with laws, regulations and social conventions means that the parents must comply with those and must have no right to "miseducate" their children.
1.5.1.1. Con: Most people can't choose not to live in such a country, it is thus not voluntary.
1.5.2. Con: Most mandatory schooling regimes include options for parents to control their child's educational experience through private or home schooling options.  These options offer more latitude for parents to introduce information in ways that conform to their particular social or religious belief systems while also requiring that the children at least achieve a minimum level of achievement with basic subject matter \(reading, writing, math...\).
1.5.3. Pro: Public school curricula often require exposure to topics that are controversial and contrary to the societal or religious beliefs of many parents \(i.e. "lifeboat" type sociology lessons, sex education, evolution, global warming...\).
1.5.3.1. Con: This is a good thing, because it's a way to initiate critical thinking in kids and help them make up their own minds instead of simply following the mental status quo of one sided schools of thought.
1.5.3.1.1. Pro: Children of certain people would be at a strong disadvantage in society without this. For instance: getting pregnant as a teenager because religious parents refuse to educate children on that topic and preach abstinence instead.
1.5.3.2. Con: Learning about religion does not make people religious, just as being exposed to sex education does not make people sexually active, and so on. Children can easily be taught about a range of different topics while still adhering to their own family's social and/or religious paradigms.
1.5.4. Con: The right of the child to be informed trumps the "right" of parents to keep them ignorant/indoctrinated.
1.6. Pro: Schools are part of how we spread and preserve our culture. Schools can provide cultural cohesion, which is important in these divisive times.
1.6.1. Con: A culture worth spreading should not require coercion to achieve that.
1.6.2. Con: Cultural cohesion is not a universally beneficial outcome of the education system. This kind of homogeny usually favours very predictable groups over others. Schools have been [historically](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=4176724907763109176&hl=en&as_sdt=0,5&sciodt=0,5) used to suppress indigenous cultures in favour of the imported cultures of European oppressors.
1.7. Pro: Schooling leads to individual development.
1.7.1. Pro: Schooling, if done right, can lead to the development of personal rigor through the overcoming of challenges-a significant component in personal development.
1.7.1.1. Con: Currently schools have very little freedom in how they can 'do things right' as they have to follow a curriculum.
1.7.2. Pro: As society and technology develop, children must be able to have knowledge at or above a certain level in order to succeed in adulthood. Considering that we live in an age of rapid development, it would be questionable if solely "outside" education could expose and teach enough subjects.
1.7.2.1. Pro: Not all parents or guardians are capable of properly educating a child in academics, let alone giving the child knowledge on various subjects that the child may have an inclination when the child grows
1.7.2.1.1. Con: Home schooling can be performed by private instructors.
1.7.2.2. Con: According to this line of thinking, school would be a bad place for education as the school curriculum rarely, if ever gives students the time to learn about current events of any kind. Subjects like math and biology are now easy to learn outside of school thanks to projects like [khan academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/) and [coursera](https://www.coursera.org/) while skills can now be learned through websites like [skillshare](https://www.skillshare.com/home).
1.7.3. Pro: Education provides a student with the opportunity to be exposed to many different ideas.
1.7.4. Pro: School is a place for children to meet and play with other children. This leads to a number of benefits.
1.7.4.1. Pro: Playing is good for a child's physical health.
1.7.4.1.1. Con: Playing can be done outside of school.
1.7.4.2. Pro: Playing with peers is an important source of meaning and joy for children.
1.7.4.2.1. Pro: Cooperation, friendship and fun all have intrinsic value, and are considered to be part of what most people see as a good life.
1.7.4.3. Con: Many schools have little time for free play and other child-child interactions – focusing in stead on lectures and individual work on assignments.
1.7.4.4. Con: Schools are often poorly equipped for play. Children would be better off going elsewhere, like local parks or woods.
1.7.4.5. Pro: This is good for children's mental health.
1.7.4.6. Pro: This helps them to develop social abilities that will be beneficial to them for the rest of their lives.
1.7.4.6.1. Pro: School enables us to develop social skills. We have to deal everyday with people, who we like or don't. We can learn how to solve conflicts. If there wasn't a place when we have to be with people, who annoy us, we would avoid them and wouldn't develop the skills required to deal with these people.
1.7.4.6.1.1. Con: One doesn't have to be in a school environment to learn social skills.
1.7.5. Pro: Children need help to grow: as young human beings, they are dependent on adults for their mental and physical development. If they do not receive this help, they will struggle to survive later on.
1.7.5.1. Pro: Children do not possess the maturity to make autonomous, sensible decisions about how they can best spend their time to set them up well for the rest of their life. It is therefore appropriate to enforce certain beneficial activities on them that they might not otherwise choose to do.
1.7.5.1.1. Con: School is not the only way for a child to participate in beneficial activities.
1.7.5.2. Con: Homeschooling shows that this is possible without school.
1.7.5.2.1. Con: The modern capitalist system makes it highly unlikely that parents will have ample time to home school their children.
1.7.5.2.1.1. Con: -> See 1.7.2.1.1.
1.7.5.3. Con: Growing and learning is a natural process and should not be an obligation. To enforce it is against personal freedom.
1.7.6. Con: Schooling promotes the learning of school subjects at the cost of children's development of autonomy, maturity and social competencies.
1.7.7. Pro: Schooling helps develop critical thinking, enabling children to use their own knowledge, thoughts and feelings and those of others to form autonomous opinions.
1.8. Pro: Schooling provides children with necessary political awareness.
1.8.1. Pro: In order to live in a society governed by laws and social conventions, a base level of education is needed to ensure the future well-being of a child.
1.8.1.1. Con: Education can be accomplished without schooling.
1.8.1.2. Con: Basic things like money management and how one should go into the adult world are not in the school curriculum. CPR which some would consider a basic skill is only taught in [21 states](http://www.sca-aware.org/schools/school-news/mandatory-cpr-training-in-us-high-schools).
1.8.2. Pro: Mandatory schooling ensures that as many members of the public as possible are reasonably educated and thus aware of the world around them. This is a necessity for any democratic society as well as a major asset to the advancement of technology and culture.
1.8.2.1. Con: The first and most obvious lesson conveyed \(to the child\) by compulsory school is that compulsion is a perfectly legitimized way to get things done. This is not a lesson which bodes well for the democratic future of the society we're discussing, regardless of how many polite lessons and courses we balance atop it..
1.8.3. Con: Not all schools do this effectively. The schooling system does not account for how the world has changed since it was first  built and subsequently doesn't prepare young people for the world around them, meaning they have to seek out information by themselves which some people are simply too lazy to do.
1.8.3.1. Con: This criticizes the current state of the educational system, not the concept of schooling in general.
1.8.3.1.1. Con: Taking the past into account one cannot be sure that schooling will change from the way that it currently is. This makes it an intrinsic part of schools themselves
1.9. Con: Schooling prevents learning.
1.9.1. Con: Schooling does not, de facto, prevent learning anymore than it de facto enables it. Learning happens in schools.
1.9.1.1. Pro: Schools offer easy access to good information and \(should\) provide an environment that helps learning.
1.9.1.1.1. Con: Schools might dissuade a child from learning as the information that they have to learn might not be what they desire to learn.
1.9.1.2. Con: By being in an environment where they are [pressured to succeed](http://mje.mcgill.ca/article/viewFile/8513/6446) children could become less excited to learn making school a place were learning is prevented.
1.9.1.3. Con: Learning happens in all parts of life and in every environment, schools are not special in this.
1.9.2. Pro: Mandatory schooling undermines a child's natural desire to learn.
1.9.2.1. Pro: Humans have an innate desire to learn and explore. At the same time we like to have established patterns that we can stick to. We have this balance because using known patterns saves energy, but when a situation changes we need to have explored alternative options. When a child learns a lot in school \(or is just tired afterwards\) his/her drive to explore can be saturated.
1.9.2.2. Pro: Research on teaching shows that "autonomy-supportive \(in contrast to controlling\) teachers catalyze in their students greater intrinsic motivation, curiosity, and the desire for challenge \(e.g., Deci, Nezlek, & Sheinman, 1981; Ryan & Grolnick, 1986\). "[Students](http://repositorio.minedu.gob.pe/bitstream/handle/123456789/2958/Intrinsic%20and%20Extrinsic%20Motivations%20Classic%20Definitions%20and%20New%20Directions.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y) who are overly controlled not only lose initiative but also learn less well…"  – it's not unreasonable to expect that voluntary schooling would be even more autonomy-supportive.
1.9.3. Pro: Awareness cannot be forced upon individuals.
1.9.3.1. Con: Governments that require schooling have already "forced" multi-generational multitudes of their citizenry to be more aware than they would have been without mandatory schooling. So, it may be true that one can't force *everyone* to become aware, but mandatory schooling has in fact forced awareness among parts of populations that would have otherwise been less aware, regarding a variety of subjects.
1.9.3.2. Con: One can create conditions for it.
1.9.3.2.1. Pro: But one can't force the spark.
1.9.3.3. Con: Awareness [is involuntary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stroop_effect).
1.9.3.4. Pro: Awareness is the result of the process of thinking, which is proactive
1.9.3.4.1. Con: The answer is behaviorism
1.10. Con: Schooling halts individual development.
1.10.1. Con: -> See 1.7.1.
1.10.2. Pro: Social skills, creativity, initiative, and so on: The competencies we need for the future are best learned in situations where learners have responsibility for themselves – which they mostly don't in school.
1.10.3. Pro: Schools usually provide too little time and space for free play.
1.10.3.1. Pro: The lack of play could be quite harmful to mental health. In the US \(like in many other OECD countries\) childhood has been fenced in and tamed since the mid-1900s, this seems to correlate with an increase in anxiety and depression in the same period.
[An article explaining some possible connections](https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/freedom-learn/201001/the-decline-play-and-rise-in-childrens-mental-disorders)
1.10.3.2. Con: For many children, school is one of the few places and times where they get to play with other children.
1.10.4. Pro: Mandatory schooling means teachers have to focus a lot of time and attention on teaching a "hidden curriculum" of obedience to authority. This is undemocratic and wasteful.
1.10.4.1. Pro: Mandatory school is associated with, and has a role in, the birth of passive and dependent workers.
1.10.4.1.1. Pro: School-based learning usually has its basis in 'spoon-feeding' children information that they then memorise and reproduce in a structured exam. This does not prepare children for the working world.
1.11. Pro: Mandatory schooling leads to other positive externalities.
1.11.1. Pro: Schooling encourages fact based problem solving and analysis.  This is important to solve social issues.
1.11.2. Pro: A very significant portion of  the current wealth and economy depends on innovation. This innovation is primarily done by well educated people. This is among other reasons because well educated people have more knowledge to build upon. Mandatory schooling provides a starting point for children to build ideas and gives them a wider view of possible careers.
1.11.3. Con: It depends upon the level of schooling that one is declaring to be mandatory.
1.11.4. Pro: Jobs require certain levels of education. Removing school and not finding a replacement for it will cause disruption to all institutions that require school in order to work. Many jobs require a degree in some subject, without school one cannot reach those degrees.
1.11.5. Con: Most schooling leads to many positive externalities. They say little to recommend compulsory education over non-compulsory. Mandatory schooling does, however, have one unique aspect. It roundly endorses coercion as your society's preferred method of getting things done \(even when faced with targets yet to reach their majority\).
1.11.6. Pro: Mandatory schooling increases literacy rates and a literate population is important in the modern world.
1.11.6.1. Pro: Without a nation wide education system, we cannot guarantee any base level of education or workforce readiness for citizens.
1.11.6.2. Con: While this is generally true, there are exceptions. In England, the legal minimum school-leaving-age is 16 with a further 2 obligatory years in at least part-time education or vocational training; in Japan, education is compulsory until age 15. In spite of this, the literacy rates in Japan are significantly [higher](https://blogs.spectator.co.uk/2016/01/britain-named-worst-in-developed-world-for-literacy-so-yes-school-reform-is-needed/) than England's.
1.11.6.3. Pro: A literate populace is necessary for the modern economy to function.
1.11.6.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.11.4.
1.11.6.3.2. Pro: Literacy is correlated with wealth, both at the individual level, and at the collective level of cities and nations.
1.11.6.4. Pro: A literate populace is necessary for a democracy to function.
1.11.7. Pro: Making school mandatory frees up parents' time, so they can work and earn a living for their families without having to pay a large percentage of their wages into childcare.
1.11.7.1. Con: That's an argument for mandatory childcare, not education.