Discussion Title: Should traffic finally be redesigned with this simple new hitchhiking law?

1. It should be obligatory by law to provide hitchhikers a free ride in private household's cars.
1.1. Pro: Exchange between people will be promoted.
1.1.1. Pro: Hitchhiking promotes a desired and needed exchange between people as complete strangers who may live in two different classes of society and living situations meet each other and can broaden each others perspective.
1.1.1.1. Con: Cultural exchange is not desired by all members of society at all time. Some conservative old people or people who are egocentric and only focused on themselves are not willing to exchange.
1.1.2. Con: If you need a law to enforce exchange, it's probably going to be a shitty exchange. Have fun sounds nice, but when it is a law, it is more like an obligatory order to have fun with a hitchhiker. There is no free mutual incentive.
1.1.3. Pro: An increase in hitchhiking would encourage strangers from different walks of life to engage in conversation.
1.1.3.1. Con: This is not a reason to enact a law. Forcing people to interact with others is a violation of personal freedom.
1.1.3.1.1. Con: The interaction can be held to a very minimum for people who don't like talking. People don't need to tell each other stories. They may just keep silent in the car.
1.1.3.2. Con: People can go to a meet up, talk to someone in the supermarket or say hi to everyone in the street whenever they want. Social interaction should not be accomplished by forcing other people into someone's car.
1.2. Pro: Fewer cars with the same amount of people in them will have a positive impact on climate change.
1.2.1. Pro: Because of decreased carbon emmisions and fuller cars, an increase in hitchhiking would be beneficial to the environment.
1.2.1.1. Pro: People feel better about themselves because they will use traffic in a more sustainable and efficient way.
1.2.2. Con: The extra weight the cars carry leads to slightly more gas consumption. Thus, carbon emissions will increase slightly, too.
1.2.2.1. Con: This effect will likely be surpassed by the decrease in cars on the road.
1.2.3. Con: The number of cars will likely not change since hitchhikers typically do not have cars.
1.2.3.1. Con: Because of the attractiveness of this law and the interest of many people to find new ways of living more sustainably and save our environment, hitchhiking will possibly gain momentum again and even people with a car will try it out! Thus, the number of cars will actually decrease and there will be fewer and fuller cards on the road.
1.2.4. Con: Driving in a car is bad for the environment. You should not do it, even if you are a hitchhiker.
1.2.4.1. Con: The hitchhiker is doing nothing more than sitting on a seat. The one who is polluting is the actual driver of the car, and he would have polluted the same amount had the hitchhiker not been there.
1.2.4.2. Pro: Gasoline is a limited resource on earth. Transportation services that work with gasoline should not be provided for free, because these transportation services are unsustainable and won't work in the long run. As long as you drive in a car you are actually creating and helping to create bad carbon emissions.
1.2.4.2.1. Con: Hitchhikers driving in cars with high carbon emissions are not the problem. All the cars on the street are!
1.3. Pro: The law enables provision of free public transport.
1.3.1. Pro: The state can save money with this law, because it doesn't need to fully finance free public transportation.
1.3.1.1. Pro: The state can't do it all alone.
1.4. Con: This law is impractical to enforce.
1.4.1. Pro: Drivers who want to take hitchhikers with them can do it. All other drivers shouldn't need to be annoyed with a rule like this.
1.4.1.1. Pro: Drivers oftentimes are in a hurry and need to save time. Drivers who are in a hurry don't want to stop for hitchhikers.
1.4.1.1.1. Con: Drivers already have to stop at traffic lights or tolls. They can also stop for letting a hitchhiker in and for letting a hitchhiker out or even combine it with traffic light stops or other usual stops.
1.4.1.1.2. Pro: A driver who doesn't have much time because he is in a hurry won't like to stop for both taking a hitchhiker into his car and letting him out again. A driver won't like to specifically come to a complete stop two times only for a person he doesn't know without any personal benefit.
1.4.1.1.3. Pro: Every hitchhiker has to enter the car and leave it. The driver has to make 2 complete stops for every hitchhiker. Having to come to a complete stop for every hitchhiker twice is really annoying for the driver. If the driver drives alone in a car with 5 seats, there are 4 free spaces for 4 hitchhikers. Assuming that every free space is occupated once by a hitchhiker, the driver has to stop 8 times for 4 other people for just one simple ride.
1.4.1.1.3.1. Con: Nobody should drive alone a 5 seat car, because it's polluting. Instead he should use public transport, or he should hitchhike himself.
1.4.1.1.3.2. Pro: Stopping so often may be actually decreasing the efficiency of traffic.
1.4.1.2. Con: There are many laws that annoy the individual, for example to pay taxes, but are beneficial for a large group. Thus, even though this law may be annoying for some car owners who don't hitchhike themself, it may be worth considering.
1.4.2. Pro: There are some reasons why a driver may not want to stop for a hitchhiker.
1.4.2.1. Pro: Any driver may just claim to be in a rush. They may also claim that the hitchhiker looked menacing. They may also lie and say that the hitchhiker performed annoying behavior either in or out of the car. It is hearsay and not provable whether or not any of these was the case. This makes the law completely unenforceable.
1.4.2.2. Pro: This system is extremely inefficient, due to the fact that drivers would not know in advance where a hitchhiker is intending to go. While the law says that the driver may evaluate each hitchhiker for suitability, this will become extremely burdensome as more hitchhikers come on the roads. A driver going in an unpopular direction may have to stop dozens of times before finding a 'suitable' hitchhiker.
1.4.2.3. Pro: There are several dangers for the driver, hitchhiker and other traffic participants connected to stopping for hitchhikers.
1.4.2.3.1. Pro: Allowing cops to stop car drivers who don't stop for hitchhikers and then determine whether they are in a rush would slow car drivers down and could potentially cause people to die if the car driver is in an actual emergency.
1.4.2.3.2. Pro: The law could create security issues for both hitchhikers and drivers alike.
1.4.2.3.2.1. Pro: There are stories of people who got robbed in their own car while hitchhiking.
1.4.2.3.2.1.1. Con: There is law enforcement to cope with criminals.
1.4.2.3.2.1.2. Con: Some criminals exist everywhere around the world, but they are the exeption.
1.4.2.3.2.1.3. Pro: [Paris Jackson got robbed by a hitchhiker](http://people.com/music/paris-jackson-robbed-by-hitchhikers/) once. Stories like this may have decreased the popularity of hitchhiking in the first place.
1.4.2.3.3. Pro: There are many roads that are not built to stop for a passenger and don't have a free lane for stopping without fast traffic behind. When a hitchhiker can't be seen from very far, a driver needs to make a harsh stop and creates a dangerous traffic situation which may lead to an accident.
1.4.2.3.3.1. Con: Drivers learn how to drive carefully and responsibly while doing their driving licence and can evaluate the risk of stopping for a hitchhiker pretty good.
1.4.2.3.3.1.1. Pro: Stopping for hitchhikers is something that worked oftentimes in the past without many accidents.
1.4.2.4. Con: If a cop actually waits next to a hitchhiker, the first car has to stop and the problem is solved. Thus, the law is easy to enforce like this. The cop will also write a ticket for people who don't stop by and stopping for hitchhikers will become a civil duty.
1.4.2.4.1. Con: The citizens won't agree to see their money used to pay a cop for waiting next to each hitchhiker.
1.4.2.4.1.1. Con: A cop doesn't actually need to wait until someone doesn't follow the rules. But cops theoretically have the chance to do controls of this system. It's like a cop doesn't actually sit at a house and waits until something gets stolen, but you can call a cop when something is stolen from you. When you know the person, a cop will write a report and give the person a penalty who stole you something.
1.4.2.4.2. Con: This is not effective use of states' police resources, given there are bigger problems to solve than hitchhikers not getting a ride.
1.4.2.4.2.1. Con: There are many problems way bigger than parking violation or other small offences. Still, regulatory authorities follow up on both high and low-priority issues.
1.4.2.4.2.2. Pro: The priority in traffic is on important issues like hit-and-run driving after accidents. Resources shouldn't be wasted to persecute drivers who don't stop for hitchhikers. This will only create a big bureaucracy machine.
1.4.2.4.3. Con: Cops cannot magically be where every hitchhiker is. This would require a hitchhiker to call the police and give them their location at which point it is easier for the cop to just give each caller a ride. If we have enough cops to spare for one to sit with each hitchhiker there are enough cops to simply drive the hitchhikers around.
1.4.2.5. Pro: Cars who drive past would in fact be breaking the law, those are the ones who need punishing and this is the part which is hard to enforce.
1.4.2.5.1. Pro: People evading the law are the ones who are not stopping anywhere or accumulating anywhere, making it hard to spot or track the law-breakers.
1.4.2.6. Pro: The law doesn't really change anything because people could just say that they feel disturbed by everyone around them in traffic. Then, they don't need to take anyone with them and the situation is still the same.
1.4.2.6.1. Pro: Hitchhiking is high-risk behaviour, and shaming people who don't partake is contemptible. Nobody can say how a hitchhiker will behave, and nor can any hitchiker predict how a car owner would react. Consider the position of prostitutes, the chief risk to their safety being picked up on the streets rather than working in a brothel. A taxi service works on the payment of money for both the service and the risk.
1.4.2.7. Pro: Some private car owners will not understand why this measure is necessary and will not implement it.
1.4.2.7.1. Pro: People generally feel uncomfortable with a stranger around them. You don't really know a stranger and you don't want to constantly be but in a situation like this.
1.4.2.7.1.1. Pro: Cars are an intimate space for some of their owners. There are many owners who don't want every stranger invited to this space. There are many drivers who like to have their car only for them.
1.4.2.7.2. Pro: Private persons would need to pay slightly more gasoline with more weight in their car. This is a cost that car owners may not agree to.
1.4.2.7.3. Pro: There are people with some particular charasteristics on the street you don't want to take with you.
1.4.2.7.3.1. Pro: Some people are talking badly about you.
1.4.2.7.3.2. Pro: It is dangerous to have to take strangers with you. They may steal, be violent against you, be drunk or behave irresponsibly.
1.4.2.7.3.2.1. Pro: You may not be able to say to a very disturbing and aggressive person that he should leave your car and every help from police or other drivers on the street could come too late. The risk may be too high for weak young women, who may be raped by old pervert men with bad intentions in their cars.
1.4.2.7.3.2.1.1. Con: The law says that you only need to take persons with you who don't disturb you. You don't have to let a drunk person or pervert enter your car in the first place and you don't need to stop for him because he will be very likely to be disturbing you.
1.4.2.7.3.2.1.1.1. Con: You may not be able to judge if a person is disturbing in advance from a distance and through the windows of your cars.
1.4.2.7.3.3. Con: As soon as you don't want to take a person with you, you can say that he or she is disturbing you and ask him to friendly search for another ride and leave your car.
1.4.2.7.3.4. Pro: Some people stink like hell because they don't shower.
1.4.2.7.3.5. Pro: Some people say things you don't like.
1.4.2.7.4. Pro: There are rich luxury car drivers who are afraid and annoyed to be obliged to let poor people into their luxury car. Even the smallest scratch could easily happen and could cost thousands of dollars for a poor hitchhiker who could not afford a damage like this.
1.4.2.7.4.1. Con: Shared joy is double joy. We're all social beings and enjoy to share our accomplishments.
1.4.2.7.5. Pro: Private car owners worked very hard for their own car and want to be able to use it alone.
1.4.2.8. Pro: People could not obey to the law, because noone controls how full your car is and if you stop for every passenger on the street as long as you could provide an empty seat.
1.4.2.8.1. Con: The law is not designed to work flawlessly. The law is rather designed to improve the overall situation.
1.4.3. Pro: Hitchhiking is not as comfortable as driving your own car. That's why people won't actually hitchhike and use their own car. Almost everyone has his own car. Thus, the law will not change much.
1.4.4. Pro: It is not enforceable because a driver could always claim that they were about to stop or turn around or go in some other direction than where the hitchhiker wants to go. There's no getting around the fact that only the driver knows whether it makes sense for them to pick up a given hitchhiker.
1.5. Con: The law is unnecessary.
1.5.1. Pro: There are better alternatives to this policy already available, such as Uber and carsharing.
1.5.2. Pro: This law won't really have a big impact.
1.5.2.1. Pro: There are many remote places where a person won't be able to find a car and still needs to drive alone.
1.5.3. Pro: Even better with car sharing platforms where supply and demand can be better organised plus added safety from not being complete strangers
1.5.3.1. Con: Car sharing platforms are not free. Car sharing platforms are actually pretty expensive.
1.6. Con: It is a complete violation of private property rights to require such a ludicrous law.
1.6.1. Pro: This law amounts to slavery and tyranny. A hitchhicker is not entitled to 1\) your labor 2\) use of your property 3\) your liberty and time. It is theft of all of the above when coerced by law.
1.6.1.1. Con: The time impact is really small. It is just the time of breaking and start driving again, which people need to do anyways in traffic.
1.6.1.2. Con: Noone is trying to actually steal a car by driving in it for a short time on a seat. Thus, the car is still the property of the owners. Because the owner decides it to use it on public road with this specific law, he has to obey the rules of the state.
1.6.1.3. Con: You are not providing your labour, because you are driving on the road anyways with your car for a specific destination. As soon as the hitchhiker wants to go in another direction, he leaves.
1.7. Con: This law would put people in danger.
1.7.1. Pro: The suggested new law enables "serial killers" to take advantage of those in cars offering lifts to hitch-hikers.
1.7.2. Pro: There would be no screening of the strangers you would be letting into your private space.
1.8. Con: Adequate and affordable mass transportation \(as cheap or cheaper than driving\) solutions are a better way to go.
1.8.1. Pro: Mass transportation operates according to schedules, which presuming good frequency and reliability makes it easier for users to plan a journey.
1.8.2. Pro: Mass transportation preserves the autonomy of the traveller.
1.8.3. Pro: A hitchhiker's experience is extremely varied. High quality mass transit can provide a more uniform travel experience, and the user can select the provider when purchasing a ticket.
1.9. Con: The whole public transportation business and the taxi industry will suffer from a service like this.
1.9.1. Pro: People will opt for the free alternative of hitchhiking, meaning other forms of public transport will become defunct.
1.9.2. Con: The taxi industry will still have customers who are disturbing for other drivers and customers who enjoy the comfort of an own taxi.
1.9.3. Con: The public transportation industry will work even better with this law. There will be an increased number of travellers on the street who couldn't afford long-distance travel before. People who only have a bit of money to travel can travel longer distances with free rides and then complementary use public transportation and taxis still, because the free ride won't work all the time at any place.
1.10. Pro: A hitchhiker will travel with increased comfort.
1.10.1. Con: It's part of the deal. If you would never have to wait, it's just like taking a bus and the bus stop is everywhere. It wouldn't be the same game, the right people will eventually take you and that is the journey.
1.10.2. Pro: A law would also ensure hitchhikers' safety.
1.10.3. Con: As many people may want to try out this new measure of transportation, there will be more hitchhikers on the road with this law and there may still be too many hitchhikers waiting for too few cars.
1.10.3.1. Con: Some hitchhikers could still just wait longer on the street and others get their free seat faster.
1.10.4. Pro: This law especially makes travel easier for underpriviledged people, because hitchhiking is free.
1.10.5. Pro: A hitchhiker doesn't neet to get frustrated by long waiting times on the street, stay in the burning sun for a long time or get cold in winter as long as there are cars with empty spaces around him.
1.11. Pro: The popularity of hitchhiking could gain momentum again.
1.11.1. Con: The above claim assumes hitchhiking is a good thing. Hitchhiking may not be a good thing in the first place.
1.11.2. Con: Positive hitchhiking experiences yield momentum, people who take hitchhikers and have fun yield momentum. Forcing hitchhikers to drive with unwilling car owners doesn't necessarily lead to fun experiences.
1.11.3. Con: Hitchhiking could gain momentum again without a law that forces people to change their behaviour.
1.11.3.1. Con: It doesn't gain momentum right now though. Maybe a law would come perfectly in time to create change that would otherwise not happen.
1.12. Pro: The traffic system is increased in effectiveness.
1.12.1. Con: This law would cause people to stop on highways and other large roads frequently which would interrupt traffic. Thus, the law will not increase traffic's efficiency.
1.12.2. Con: Enforcing this law would cause police to need to stop people much more frequently which would interrupt traffic.
1.12.3. Pro: A law like this leads to full cars, while the number of drivers stays the same. The same big number of travelers on roads will fit in fewer cars on the road. This makes the system more effective. Traffic jams are less likely to happen.
1.12.3.1. Pro: Less cars for the same amount of people or even some more people, who couldn't afford cars before, lead to a positive or at maximum neutral impact on climate change.
1.12.3.2. Con: Traffic jams may be more likely to happen due to all the people stopping to pick up the hitchhikers.
1.12.3.3. Con: The number of travelers may actually increase because it is very attractive to be able to travel everywhere easily without money as long as you have the time to find a free space in a car. This would maybe even have a negative impact on carbon emissions.
1.12.3.3.1. Con: The number of available free seats will always be limited and defined by the limited amount of free cars available on the street.