Discussion Title: Should religious education be compulsory in public schools?

1. Should public schools \(primary and secondary\) have religion as a required \(not elective\) course?
1.1. Pro: Religion as a required course ensures a more holistic education.
1.1.1. Con: Belief \(or disbelief\) is a personal choice which should not be influenced by any institution on any condition.
1.1.2. Pro: You don't have to necessarily believe in a religion to see that there are parts that aid in creating a balanced society. To say that religion is not valid in schools is 'throwing the baby out with the bath water'. A lot of the rights and wrongs that help promote a healthy society such as not stealing, loving one another, not cheating on people or lying come from religious texts. Even if 'religion' is not taught as a main subject, the principles are still present.
1.1.2.1. Con: "Religion" and "Morals" are not the same thing. Religions may teach morals, but the morals can differ significantly depending on the religion. One faith may support things like homosexual behavior, while another may view it as cause for severe punishment. You would have to determine which morals to support, which would automatically support some over others.
1.1.3. Pro: Religion classes should be compulsory, but taught together with social sciences or history to have a comparison tool.
1.1.4. Con: Not necessarily; religion is not what makes education holistic.
1.1.5. Con: Holistic means that you want to include each and every particular discipline in education. This is costly. Picking only religion for that doesn't make it holistic in any way.
1.2. Pro: Religion as a required course improves the moral values in students.
1.2.1. Con: Religion has no moral truth. Religion as a basis for morality is a fallacy. Modern western society does not utilize religion this way. Even highly religious subcultures, with few exceptions, deviate significantly from religious laws given in holy texts. Therefore religion does not hold moral truth, and the argument that teaching religion will make people more moral is not true.
1.2.2. Con: Morality should be taught independently of any faith. Students should be raised with a humanist view on morality. If morality depends on a higher existence, then one is denying that civility can arise from human nature and communal preservation, thus actually weakening the moral strength of the people.
1.2.3. Con: As stated, all religions would be taught and therefore no single source of morality could be taught.
1.2.3.1. Con: Religion as the study of different moral systems is an important tool to understand the moral system students are born into. It will give students a broader context in which to answer their personal question on moral matters, thus improving their moral awareness.
1.2.4. Con: The very phrase, Moral Value - especially in a context of religious expression - may carry with it any number of compelling concerns as with regards to institutionalization of political and religious doctrines in publicly funded institutions, and Constitutional limits of academic institutions' authority. It may seem to suggest a view in which a school's role would be supposed as to "Moralize" the student body. With regards to religious doctrines, this may become an ever steeper legal concern
1.2.5. Con: Religious instruction does not make pupils more moral than those without religious instruction.
1.2.5.1. Pro: Studies on evangelicals and torture show evangelicals are more likely than average Americans to [support torture](http://www.pewforum.org/2009/04/29/the-religious-dimensions-of-the-torture-debate/).
1.2.5.2. Pro: [Studies](https://www.barna.com/research/barnas-annual-review-of-significant-religious-findings-offers-encouragement-and-challenges/) on the impact of faith on morals choices: “Faith has had a limited affect on people’s behavior, whether related to moral convictions and practices,“
1.2.6. Con: Standardizing the "improvement" of people's values is dangerously reminiscent of totalitarianism.
1.2.7. Pro: Students would be more aware of different sets of values, which they can then ponder and develop their own personal values.
1.2.8. Con: This is untrue. Ethics is the part you can separate from any religion. There is no need to add belief part.
1.2.9. Pro: Religion should be taught in schools, even if limited, to foster critical thinking and to allow the individual to make choices.
1.2.9.1. Pro: Critical thinking comes from the knowledge and meeting of different point of views. Studying religion in a broad sense would encourage the individual reaction \(and thus growth\) to these differences.
1.3. Con: There are already so many graduation requirements that something would need to be sacrificed. There's simply not enough room in a students schedule to allow for another mandatory course.
1.3.1. Con: If it mattered enough, it could be scheduled accordingly.
1.3.1.1. Con: Religion lacks any reason to matter.
1.3.2. Con: Classes at the secondary level which encourage civic, social, or moral engagement \(humanities\) have real world benefit students would not learn in the maths or sciences.
1.3.2.1. Con: Technical progress is done by engineers, not moralists.
1.3.2.1.1. Con: Technological progress does not teach humans how to use technology for good purposes.
1.3.3. Pro: Students are burdened with plenty of coursework as is. The history of world religions is frequently discussed in social studies and literature classes that are already required. A focus on world religions can easily be added to the scope of social studies curriculum without having to add an additional required course.
1.3.4. Pro: It doesn't have to be examined just taught.
1.3.5. Pro: Religion classes can be a [waste](https://www.dailytelegraph.com.au/news/nsw/parents-pushing-government-to-change-strict-rules-on-what-kids-can-do-who-dont-attend-scripture/news-story/9eb83663e54dda03541802ef161a338a) of [student's time](https://www.smh.com.au/opinion/a-disgrace-nonreligious-kids-forced-to-waste-their-time-at-school-20170725-gxic89.html).
1.3.5.1. Pro: Students who follow the religion will be taught it at home and churches, it's redundant to teach them in school.
1.3.5.2. Pro: Students who follow a different religion won't need to learn anything about said religion.
1.3.5.2.1. Con: This doesn't mean they shouldn't, or that schools shouldn't try to teach them about other religions.
1.3.5.2.1.1. Con: Kids have enough things to learn that will actually benefit them.
1.3.5.3. Pro: Non religious students won't [learn](https://www.dailytelegraph.com.au/news/nsw/parents-pushing-government-to-change-strict-rules-on-what-kids-can-do-who-dont-attend-scripture/news-story/9eb83663e54dda03541802ef161a338a) [anything](https://www.smh.com.au/opinion/a-disgrace-nonreligious-kids-forced-to-waste-their-time-at-school-20170725-gxic89.html) useful.
1.3.5.3.1. Con: This is patently untrue - those in classes are learning about religions, the cultural bedrocks of many societies.
1.3.5.4. Con: It can make undecided kids religious.
1.3.5.4.1. Con: There's no reason why this would be a good thing.
1.3.5.4.1.1. Con: This isn't necessarily a problem, however, as long as it is personal choice.
1.4. Con: Religious instruction and education should be conducted by family not the state.
1.4.1. Pro: Parents should be the prime educators of children, not the state. If the state selects a religion to teach, the state gets to dictate the parts of the religion that it likes and wishes to teach. The religion in question will be distorted once the government starts to teach it.
1.4.2. Con: Most parents would only teach their own religious beliefs. A comprehensive religious education would cover all major religions and arguments against religion equally, meaning the students will gain a knowledge of religions other than that of their parents and an understanding of those of different faiths.
1.4.3. Con: Religious education in schools may be the only opportunity some students \(particularly younger children\) have to be informed about beliefs other than those held by their families.
1.4.3.1. Con: The internet excels at distributing information. School is by no means "the only opportunity" \(nor necessarily the best\).
1.4.3.2. Con: Parents and guardians who seek to impose their own religious beliefs upon and enforce observation by their child will contravene such a child's exposure to objective religious perspectives in the public school setting; thus, teaching religion as an objective educational goal will fail.
1.4.3.3. Con: This is true and fair if this education will show the origins of religion and explain all kinds of religions, not any particular one.
1.4.3.3.1. Pro: If we want to extend the religious education we should be teaching all the respectives of each religion. That will be a great way of avoiding fanaticism in faith.
1.5. Pro: Religions \(all of them\) as a world history taught accurately and in context would give students a background to make sense of the world and their own decisions about religion.
1.5.1. Pro: Religious studies can allow both religious and non-religious alike to question their beliefs and learn critical reasoning skills.
1.5.1.1. Con: Philosophy does it much better.
1.5.2. Pro: A "World Religions" course teaches both religious and irreligious people respect for other beliefs and lifestyles.
1.5.2.1. Pro: Religion as a required course would promote growth in our ability to coexist with one another, and further enhance the possibility of peaceful resolution to religious conflicts.
1.5.3. Con: There is no reason that religion should be taught as its own subject. If a religious ideology is important for historical or literary context, the context should be part of the lesson.
1.5.3.1. Pro: It could as easily be argued that nearly every war in history is the result of religious conflict.
1.5.3.1.1. Con: It could easily be argued that almost all wars in history are the result of economic conflict.
1.5.3.1.2. Con: Huffington Post writes in [this article](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/rabbi-alan-lurie/is-religion-the-cause-of-_b_1400766.html), "In their recently published book, “Encyclopedia of Wars,” authors Charles Phillips and Alan Axelrod document the history of recorded warfare, and from their list of 1763 wars only 123 have been classified to involve a religious cause, accounting for less than 7 percent of all wars and less than 2 percent of all people killed in warfare."
1.5.3.2. Pro: It's more important to teach politics and why religion has nothing to do with them than it is to teach about the religions themselves.
1.5.3.3. Con: Religion is a hugely vital part of many people's day to day lives and culture; understanding and valuing it is vital.
1.5.3.3.1. Con: This is becoming less and less prevalent as people become more interested in 'facts' than with the unproven belief.
1.5.3.4. Con: The absence of religious education sends a message to kids that religion is unimportant. This is a myopic view given that much of global history and current events is guided by it.
1.5.3.4.1. Con: The history of religion and religion education are distinct topics
1.5.3.5. Pro: Religion should be taught in in context to History. Religious education should be taught in Church.
1.5.3.6. Con: Understanding religions is important not only for better historical context, but also for providing greater context for modern-day interactions, new policies, and current events.
1.5.3.6.1. Con: If religion is important for context in new policies and current events, they can be taught as part of the lesson on those subjects.
1.5.3.6.2. Con: In the case of modern day interactions, the subject doesn't seem necessary enough to be a required course. If a person wants to improve their interactions, they can elect the course.
1.5.3.7. Pro: Many students only ever encounter certain subjects, like ethics, philosophy, etc. in "religion" courses. However, these things, as well as religion, could also be taught in a secular alternative course, such as "ethics".
1.5.3.8. Pro: Religion rarely pertains to skills for living in a modern world nor does it teach job skills \(theologians are not in demand, so it's not likely to provide a living\). If taught in school it would take time away from other subjects that do in fact prepare one for life such as home economics or any shop that is hands on, because we need to feed ourselves to live and we would be better prepared if we knew how to fix certain things.
1.5.3.8.1. Con: A better knowledge of religion may give a better understanding of the dynamics shaping the modern world: for instance, the study of religion may give a better understanding of a phenomenon such as religious-related terrorism.
1.5.4. Con: Only if all religions are covered; otherwise, it is simply another propaganda machine for certain more favoured religions.
1.5.4.1. Pro: As there are thousands of religions on Earth, there cannot be a teacher for each religion in each school. There will always be some students who don't have the freedom to follow their religion at school, because there is no teacher available for their religion.
1.5.4.1.1. Con: This isn't about following a religion, it is about learning about different faith other than your own.
1.5.4.2. Con: If the point of the course is to help students make better sense of the world and the religions that exist in the world, then covering the top 20 religions would suffice because it would cover the vast majority of people and cultures those students will meet.
1.5.5. Con: History is more useful than religious studies; history has been affected by religion, certainly, but it should not be taught primarily.
1.5.6. Pro: Religious individuals constitute [over 70%](https://www.theregister.co.uk/2006/10/06/the_odd_body_religion/) of the global population.
1.5.6.1. Con: That figure is spread out over dozens of major faiths, and hundreds or thousands of lesser faiths. Considering how drastically faiths differ, it's an unrealistic oversimplification to lump them together for the purpose of education. For example, it's akin to suggesting we teach "science," without also adding what aspects of which fields of study.
1.5.7. Pro: As long as the teacher is an anthropologist, and covers at least most large religions.
1.5.7.1. Pro: The study of religion contains valuable anthropological information
1.5.7.2. Con: Many lesser religions are critical to understanding their respective cultures. For example, to understand ancient Japanese, you must understand the basics of Shinto; such is not a large religion by any means. Equality is key.
1.5.7.3. Pro: It is also important to have basic knowledge of non religious beliefs like, antitheism, agnosticism, and atheism.
1.5.8. Con: Even within individual religious ideologies there can be many sub divisions. [The Center for the Study of Global Christianity](http://www.gordonconwell.edu/resources/documents/StatusOfGlobalMission.pdf) estimated over 43,000 denominations of Christianity in 2012. It would therefore be impractical to teach what it means to be a Christian, let alone Muslim, Jewish, Hindu, Buddhist, etc.
1.5.8.1. Pro: If the literal text of each religion is taught, this would mean that beliefs which do not hold the text as literal are poorly represented.
1.5.9. Pro: Given that religion is central to many current societal issues \(i.e. debates over abortion, current world conflicts, etc.\) then it makes sense that a non-sectarian survey of the teachings and practices of the major world religions could be taught in public schools without undue concern for indoctrination. This, of course, assumes that the course could be taught with impartiality.
1.6. Pro: Religion as a required course inspires toleration and harmony.
1.6.1. Pro: Learning about different belief systems will help students relate to others who are different from themselves.
1.6.1.1. Con: In the [religion courses](http://www.evrel.ewf.uni-erlangen.de/pesc/ie-2008-schreiner.pdf), children are all too often taught about the religion they formally belong to, thus learning nothing about other belief systems.
1.6.1.2. Con: Information about different belief systems may be provided at secular courses.
1.6.2. Con: Society should tolerate that atheist students do not practice religion.
1.6.2.1. Con: In countries with comprehensive religious education, many faiths and arguments against faiths are included, for example in the UK. [telegraph.co.uk](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/education/12015859/Non-religious-views-should-not-have-been-left-out-of-new-GCSE-High-Court-rules.html) The lessons are also purely academic, focusing on what people who practice religions believe, rather than forcing students to practice a faith.
1.6.2.2. Con: A course on various religions does not necessarily mean that society won't tolerate atheist students not practicing any of those religions, especially if atheism is actually covered in the course.
1.6.3. Con: While toleration and harmony are good things to teach, we do not need to involve religious beliefs in that teaching.
1.6.3.1. Pro: A course on toleration and harmony would inspire toleration and harmony. Religion is not required for empathy and conflict resolution.
1.6.3.2. Pro: Sociology, citizenship or PSHE classes would be better places to teach such values.
1.6.3.3. Con: A course on religion would create understanding, which is powerful foundation for true tolerance and harmony.
1.6.4. Pro: It has been said that philosophy lessons would help children to develop better interpersonal skills. Religions are philosophy in a way, and learning the contexts, rituals and ways of each one, would create more tolerant people to others ideas and views of the world. It must be part of a wider program, but definitely teaching Religion \(and not catechism\) is a good way to learn about the world.
1.6.4.1. Con: [Philosophy](https://www.google.com/search?client=safari&rls=en&q=define+philosophy&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8) teachers self thought, religion teaches [blind](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=John+20:29&version=ESV) obedience. For example, the [first book of the bible](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Genesis+3&version=NIV) God curses mandkind for learning.
1.6.4.1.1. Con: This is a sweeping generalisation towards religious attitude to analysing and discussing faith. Some Judaic belief systems actively encourage debate over the meaning of religious texts as an active component of worship.
1.6.4.2. Con: People can be tolerant without learning about religion. People can be intollerant becaue of religious texts.
1.6.4.2.1. Con: This is by no means universally true.
1.6.4.2.2. Pro: People who don't read religious texts will have less reason to be intolerant, such as during gay marriage debates when people cite the Bible as their reason for not wanting the change.
1.6.4.2.2.1. Con: This doesn't mean that people who don't read scripture will always be less tolerant.
1.6.4.3. Con: There are already ways to learn about the world, for example a history class.
1.6.5. Con: Religions do not necessarily promote tolerance: religions may oppose freedom of sexuality and gender, abortion, friendships between genders, sexual freedoms, class, etc.
1.6.5.1. Con: This is greatly dependant on religion, denomination, and local sociopolitical environment. Provided that this is communicated in a balanced manner and with these factors in mind, to explain why some people believe these things is not necessarily going to breed intolerance in the classroom but, by contrast, teach students how to rationally and logically debate the validity \(or lack thereof\) of these thought processes.
1.6.6. Con: Many wars have had religious backgrounds and millions of people have died because of religion.
1.6.6.1. Con: Religion has been used as an excuse to pursue all kinds of wars, but war is not an inherent moral value in almost all religions. People didn't die because of religion, instead they died from its political and military exploitation. Studying religion would allow students to gain more consciousness about this kind of issues.
1.6.7. Con: Religion inspires the opposite in most cases. Religious people are constantly trying to spread their point of view.
1.7. Con: Religious instruction at school can embroil schools in unwanted legal battles.
1.7.1. Pro: [Parents sued to block yoga from being taught in PE due to a belief that it was the state teaching religion.](https://www.nbcsandiego.com/news/local/Yoga-Lawsuit-Encinitas-Judgment-Ruling-School-Class-Controversy-213853341.html)
1.7.2. Pro: [Parents sued school for forcing son to watch intro to Islam video](https://articles.nj.com/morris/index.ssf/2018/01/chatham_mother_sues_school_district_saying_that_tr.amp)
1.8. Pro: The tensions created between religion and the society we live in need to be taught and studied in order to address, overcome, or manage those tensions. To fail to do so is to encourage unopposed polarising viewpoints which will only further those same tensions.
1.9. Pro: Religion as a required course allows free practice of religion on school grounds.
1.9.1. Con: Free practice of religion should be totally free at home and in churches. In other places \(including public places like school\) there are boundaries that are set by society and are widely accepted.
1.9.1.1. Con: "Widely accepted" is a dubious claim to make about this statement. A large majority of institutions are required by law to have allowances for the religious practices of the people that work or use those establishments, implying that as a society we do not in fact believe that faith should be kept solely to the home and place of worship.
1.9.2. Con: Free practice of religion can, and should exist without needing  a compulsory course around it.
1.9.3. Con: The school is not a synagogue. Certainly, some schools - perhaps typically, postsecondary schools - may allow for presentations of a religious nature, in a context of Free Speech. Furthermore, perhaps in an interest of sensitivity to student's needs, some schools may allow for private prayer on the school campus. These policies may not represent, per se, any institutional support for individual religious doctrines - such as may easily fall into questions of legality, on a Constitutional grounds.
1.9.3.1. Con: By educating students as to the workings and belief systems of religions, they will be able to better understand and include their religious classmates which will lead to a greater sense of unity within a school community.
1.9.4. Pro: A course covering multiple religions will expose students to new ideas and thus more options for religious practice, making their own practice of religion more truly free.
1.9.4.1. Con: This vision will induce that religion is a mandatory component of life, which isn't true.
1.9.5. Con: -> See 1.5.4.
1.10. Con: Religion as a required course causes contradicting education.
1.10.1. Pro: Religion should never be a required course because it implies that everyone should be religious to some extent, which is unfair to all children as they are not able to decide whether they want to believe in anything. Forcing beliefs upon individuals is the contrary of what education is supposed to achieve.
1.10.1.1. Con: Acquiring information about a topic does not require the person to believe in it. Existence of atheist theologians may be proof for that.
1.10.1.2. Con: Religious instruction \(RI\) and religious education \(RE\) are different in intention and scope. One is teaching a religious consciousness, the other to be conscious of religion\(s\).
1.10.2. Pro: As per definition religion is dogmatic and dogmatic point of views do not allow for analysis and argumentation. Then, it should not be compulsory.
1.10.2.1. Con: Religious people argue and debate all the time.
1.10.2.2. Con: If a system of belief is dogmatic, then surely debate of the validity of that dogma is to be encouraged rather dismissed.
1.10.2.3. Con: A dogmatic belief system does not disallow debate. This is how denominations and heresies in belief systems come about.
1.10.3. Con: Learning about the existence of contradiction in society is the first step to managing it well.
1.10.4. Pro: Religious and scientific views on the creation and evolution of the universe are deeply contradictory.
1.10.4.1. Con: Which is not an issue if presented fairly. To remove a facet of perception due to not believing in it is removing the right of others to make up their own mind. The door swings both ways and removing something that is not inherently dangerous is a form of censorship.
1.10.4.2. Con: Only certain religious views can be said to contradict science. Many if not most religious views comport well with science or at least make claims that material sciences can neither prove not disprove.
1.10.5. Con: Belief systems do not necessarily have to contradict education, although there may be some aspects that require more explanation and balance from teachers.
1.10.5.1. Pro: A major point of contention is likely to be the role of creationism vs physics; teachers need to address this with respect to different religious theories, whilst remaining true to the facts of physics as we know them.
1.10.5.1.1. Pro: I agree. When I learned about Evolution in Secondary education, it was spoken of as factual. The reality through the eyes of science itself is that evolution is a theory and not a fact. Much the same way science sees Creationism. The major difference is that Evolution fits into the beaker more easily void of it's validity.
1.10.5.2. Pro: Compulsory religious education could be balanced by sociology and citizenship lessons, to promote views that are not necessarily held or promoted by religions.
1.10.5.3. Con: This still remains fundamentally cross-purposes for children who need to understand the world around them. It is almost impossible to explain to children that some people believe - despite no evidence - contradictory things to that taught in a science class.
1.10.6. Con: It is possible to learn about religions that you do not agree with without it changing your own beliefs. Some believers learn about belief systems that they do not hold themselves. Some atheists make a point to learn a lot about religions from purely an educational standpoint, without looking for or finding a belief from seeking this information.
1.10.7. Pro: Religion as a required course causes conflicts in the classroom.
1.10.7.1. Pro: It is impossible to state what actually should be the result of religion education. It is impossible to measure belief.
1.10.7.1.1. Con: The result is knowledge and understanding, as with any subject. Nobody would suggest that religious education should foster some measurable level of 'belief' in that religion.
1.10.7.2. Con: Traditional Scripture teaching- where different children go to different classes- can have this effect but that it not what is proposed here, which is more like comparative religion \(which can include non-religion\).
1.10.7.3. Con: Conflicts in a classroom are good because teachers can show students how to argue with each other respectfully.
1.10.7.4. Pro: As atheism is rarely considered a 'religion', this would be a damaging way to insist that students learn about abstract belief systems \(many of which are growing redundant over time\).
1.10.7.5. Pro: Religion becomes a part of your identity, which creates separate group structures in school. \(same with language, heritage...\)
1.10.7.6. Pro: Unless the educator teaching the course is a leader in the respective religious community, they students stand to be taught out-of-context, biased, or false ideas of the religion in question. Such poor styles of education could cause an adverse effect if the goal is to teach a "moral structure" to students, and could also cause a societal backlash against religions.
1.10.8. Pro: Religion courses should not be mandatory because of the lack of proof of a deity.
1.10.8.1. Pro: We do not make mandatory courses of things that aren't real. Mythology isn't real. All religion is mythology. Therefore, it should not be required.
1.10.8.1.1. Con: Mathematics is not real - it exists solely as an abstract construction - yet it has tremendous implications in the real world. This is also true for religion studied as a set of moral values in a specific historical context.
1.10.8.1.1.1. Con: Mathematics is demonstrably real. Our conceptualization of mathematics is a convenience. Just as all language is a conceptualization of real concepts.
1.10.8.2. Con: The impacts that religious movements have made on the world is significant throughout history and learning about why there are all these different sets of beliefs and how it impacts us can help educate students in a way that isn't trying to just sway them to believe in a deity.
1.10.8.3. Pro: Public money should not be spent on anything related to your personal choice. This is like building churches for public money.
1.10.8.3.1. Con: Sport is a personal choice but widely taught in schools. Ditto music.
1.10.8.3.1.1. Con: It is wrong to conflate music and sports with religion; people listen to different music and do different sports, but religion only allows for one belief system.
1.10.8.3.2. Con: Public money is spent on education to optimize individual choices in self articulation and cooperation later in adult life. Everything taught in a school will contribute to a personal narrative and add up when personal, individual decisions are to be made.
1.10.9. Con: But knowing those contradictions exist and exploring and understanding those contradictions and their origins is important.
1.10.9.1. Con: True - but compulsory religious education is not the way to show it. History is.
1.10.9.1.1. Con: No good in-depth historical analysis can be achieved without a deeper awareness of the underlying religious context \(this is also the reason why philosophy is a separate course study from history\).
1.11. Con: Religion as a required course distorts the notion that school is for everyone.
1.11.1. Pro: It would be almost impossible to give equal weighting to all religions; as such, it winds up being biased.
1.11.1.1. Con: Not all belief systems are equally relevant to society. So it is acceptable to bias toward relevant topics, as is true in any field of learning.
1.11.1.1.1. Con: This would make dominant religions be taught everywhere and smaller religions only taught in their community.
1.11.2. Pro: If the school teaches Christianity \(for example\), then every non Christian student either has to forcefully learn christianity, or be excluded of the class. None of these options is acceptable.
1.11.2.1. Con: Learning about a faith does not compel belief or adherence to that faith, or exclude anyone. It's simply more knowledge gained about the human experience.
1.11.3. Pro: Religious instruction can be coercive, and mandatory religious instructions are even more coercive.
1.11.3.1. Pro: Pennsylvania mandatory bible readings were found unconstitutional in [Abington School District v. Schempp](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abington_School_District_v._Schempp)
1.11.4. Pro: Religion as a required course excludes the students who follow a religion outside of the course syllabus and atheist students.
1.11.4.1. Con: Students with belief systems outside the syllabus stand to benefit the most, as they presumably already know about their own faith.
1.11.4.2. Con: Religion as a required course, because it would include multiple religions, could include atheism so students understand not only those religions, but also their antithesis.
1.11.4.3. Con: A religious course could take measures to include religions not found in the course syllabus.
1.12. Con: Religion as a required course distorts the separation of religion and state.
1.12.1. Con: Separation of church and state is focused on the state not promoting a certain religion or set of beliefs.   Teaching kids about all religions is far different from teaching kids in a way that advocates or promotes a certain religion.
1.12.2. Pro: Few educators are formally trained in religious theology. It might be difficult for the instructor to separate personal religious beliefs from the course content.
1.12.2.1. Pro: -> See 1.10.7.6.
1.12.2.2. Con: The number of formally trained theology teachers would rise with demand.
1.12.2.3. Pro: In certain areas, finding teachers who would not use such a course as a tool to evangelize could be a very real struggle.
1.12.3. Con: According to the [ACLU](https://www.aclu.org/other/joint-statement-current-law-religion-public-schools), schools do not violate the 1st Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, from which the separation of church and state is derived in U.S. law.
1.12.4. Pro: The religion course should enforce this division; by showing that there are many different religions, the school becomes a place of tolerance.