Discussion Title: Should The UK Education System Consider An Overhaul?

1. The UK Education System Should Consider An Overhaul.
1.1. Con: Focusing on ideas won't be enough without thinking about how they could be practically realised.
1.1.1. Pro: Ideas get discussed all the time; it only matters if they are acted upon.
1.2. Pro: Teachers have a lot to say and would feel more involved and empowered to do so.
1.2.1. Con: Teachers still have their job security to consider; speaking out may not be to their ultimate benefit.
1.3. Con: Teachers don't want to have to deal with yet more changes and disruption.
1.3.1. Con: Every year teachers already deal with huge changes to marking schemes, teaching methods and topics. Teachers would support a system implemented where these changes became unnecessary.
1.3.2. Pro: The current system is fit for purpose and any significant level of change is both unrealistic and potentially highly disruptive.
1.3.3. Con: The current system is not fit for purpose. Changes that support Teachers and improve the future of UK children would be welcomed and implemented professionally.
1.3.4. Con: Many teachers may actually welcome a huge change, even if it is initially difficult.
1.4. Con: The UK has achieved an international reputation for good, solid grades and accountability-based approaches to learning.
1.4.1. Con: In the last few years, the UK has fallen [dramatically behind](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/education/education-news/pisa-oecd-rankings-uk-schools-falling-behind-leading-countries-global-international-singapore-a7458751.html) other countries in terms of their educational standards and quality.
1.4.2. Pro: [UK universities](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/education/education-news/uk-universities-global-ranking-brexit-reputation-eu-students-academics-science-research-oxford-a7928836.html) are consistently at the top of international league tables.
1.4.3. Pro: The current system works well in terms of making students focus on grades and get into university.
1.5. Pro: Education of children should include more on how to live \(ethics and personal responsibility\), and not just on how to make a living \(money and national economy\).
1.5.1. Pro: Education based on the interests and passions of an individual would eventually create a more cohesive community.
1.5.2. Pro: A lot of time is spent teaching content that will never be used and is therefore a waste of time and money. School should be focused on preparing kids for adult life by developing their character and teaching skills that every adult needs, not just for a profession that a child is forced to choose at a young age.
1.5.3. Pro: Sociology, PSHE \(and equivalents\) and philosophy are offered in various schools already, and are growing in popularity.
1.6. Pro: It will make everyone think about the failings of the current system.
1.6.1. Pro: Parents will be encouraged to think about whether the system is supporting their children in becoming happy, healthy and caring adults.
1.6.2. Con: Many people already think about the failings of the current system; it is irrelevant unless it leads to some sort of change.
1.7. Pro: Education has begun to negatively impact on childrens mental health across the UK and we need to consider the long term ramifications of choosing grades over child health.
1.7.1. Con: There should be more support and pastoral care in schools, certainly, but there isn't necessarily a need for a national debate.
1.8. Con: If nothing happens in response parents will feel even more disempowered / disillusioned about the current system.
1.8.1. Con: If nothing happens after the first debate, further debate will be encouraged as long as the system continues to be insufficient
1.8.2. Pro: -> See 1.4.3.