Discussion Title: Should U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) be eliminated?

1. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement \(ICE\) should be eliminated.
1.1. Pro: ICE often requires local and state law enforcement to act as federal proxies.
1.1.1. Pro: States have the right to not have their law enforcement coopted by the federal government.
1.1.2. Pro: ICE participation, whether coerced or voluntary, often degrades the reputation of the local police department. This can make it less likely that immigrant groups will cooperate with law enforcement.
1.1.3. Pro: ICE using space in local jails diverts state resources to federal purposes, violating state sovereignty.
1.1.4. Con: Localities may be paid by ICE for cooperating, helping to keep local law enforcement funded.
1.2. Con: Any agency replacing ICE would replicate the problems of the current enforcement program.
1.3. Pro: ICE is relatively ineffective at its job.
1.3.1. Pro: It was just revealed that the government lost track of 1475 children that had been separated from their parents that the government was supposed [monitor.](http://time.com/5256734/government-missing-migrant-children/)
1.3.2. Con: Efficiency can be improved; this problem does not justify eliminating the whole agency.
1.4. Pro: Calling ICE agents is commonly used as a threat against immigrant populations, regardless of whether they are undocumented or not.
1.4.1. Con: Documented immigrants who are legally in the US have nothing to fear from ICE. This threat is therefore harmless to them.
1.5. Pro: It does not make sense that ICE is separate from the rest of the immigration system, specifically the awarding and processing of immigrants and immigrant visas.
1.5.1. Pro: ICE is disconnected from the immigration courts it is required to work in conjunction to.
1.6. Pro: ICE routinely racially profiles.
1.6.1. Con: Questionable or outright illegal behavior of an agency can be dealt with through better supervision, more transparency, the stricter enforcement of rules and changes to the agency's internal culture. Elimination of the agency is unnecessary.
1.6.1.1. Con: ICE's current structure as a stand-alone agency incentivizes it to commit abuses on specific groups of people.
1.6.1.1.1. Pro: The duty to detain and deport immigrants inherently deemphasizes the humanity of specific groups of people. Because this is ICE's major task assignment, the agency as a whole already has a predisposition towards abuse.
1.6.1.1.2. Pro: Dismantling ICE and reassigning the powers to an agency that is required to do several things would help counterbalance the focus on deportations. For example, the Border Patrol is tasked with helping people stranded on the border and processing asylum seekers. They cannot as easily automatically take a disposition of hostility towards the people they encounter because of this, even though they also deal with preventing people from crossing the border and removing them from the United States.
1.6.1.1.3. Con: Many agencies have powers that put them in positions of abuse. That is the nature of the powers, not the agency. Just because abuse exists does not mean an agency should be dismantled.
1.7. Pro: ICE uses tactics specifically designed to scare and marginalize immigrants in America.
1.7.1. Pro: ICE is separating children from their families during detention proceedings for asylum seekers.
1.7.1.1. Con: People who apply for asylum legally do not have their children separated from them. It is those who enter the country illegally or have extended their stay after legal status expired.
1.7.1.1.1. Con: Separating children from parents is still a brutal act, no matter the situation of the migrant.
1.8. Pro: The duties of ICE are redundant with other agencies and departments.
1.8.1. Pro: ICE's role as border enforcement is redundant with the Border Patrol.
1.8.1.1. Con: ICE's enforcement is not limited to border states
1.8.2. Pro: ICE's role as an investigative agency is redundant with the FBI.
1.8.2.1. Con: The FBI has a very long history of targeting minorities.
1.9. Con: ICE is a rather new agency. It was founded in 2003 and should be given time to establish itself.
1.9.1. Pro: Eliminating a rather new agency would be embarrassing for the government and add to the public disenchantment with politics.
1.9.1.1. Con: Many things ICE does drives trust in the government down.
1.9.2. Pro: New status does not mean that an agency is not useful or necessary.
1.9.3. Con: The United States used to have an effective immigration enforcement system before ICE was in existence.
1.10. Con: ICE currently does a necessary job. It is important to have dedicated immigration enforcement.
1.10.1. Pro: The existence of ICE as a specific agency signals to the public as well as to current and prospective immigrants that America takes border enforcement and deportations seriously.
1.11. Con: ICE is the [second largest contributor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._Immigration_and_Customs_Enforcement#History) to America's Joint Terrorism Task Force. Eliminating would weaken the nation's defenses against terrorism.
1.12. Con: ICE has currently over 20.000 employees. It is difficult to imagine that expertise and experience on this scale could easily be compensated for elsewhere.