Discussion Title: Should the Met remove Balthus' painting, Thérèse Dreaming?

1. The Metropolitan Museum of Art should remove Balthus' painting, Thérèse Dreaming.
1.1. Pro: The painting is pornographic and does not belong in a museum.
1.1.1. Con: Pornography that breaks no laws is not an inherently bad thing and should not be the sole cause of removal for a work of art.
1.1.2. Con: The painting is no more pornographic than a painting of children skinnydipping in a lake or bathing. Nudity is not inherently sexual, and is in fact the natural state of all living things.
1.1.2.1. Pro: Various statues/paintings of naked human beings are on display in various museums around the world. None of them have sexual connotations attached to them.
1.1.3. Con: The subject matter was far less controversial in its time and place. It's a painting about innocence and sexual awakening. Connects the classical pubic-hair\(less\) Adonis and Venus with a garden of Eden narrative about awakening or similar. Balthus aimed to shock in some cases \(guitar lesson\) but that is fairly par for the course for artists of the past 150 years.
1.2. Pro: There are other paintings that could be in its place.
1.2.1. Con: Taking the decision on which art hangs away from the curator and into the hands of a mob of petition signers is not an appropriate way to ensure the best art is seen.
1.3. Con: Occasionally, it is necessary that society is confronted with a topic that it deems to be unsavoury or uncomfortable in order to broaden our perspective and understanding of certain issues.
1.3.1. Con: It is quite unnecessary for society to be exposed to "unsavory" art that for example, denies the holocaust. There is no benefit that is achieved and the harm is the offense that this causes.
1.4. Con: Censorship in any form damages society making all artists less able to express themselves and so society less able to create works of truth.
1.4.1. Pro: In all cases it is wrongful to destroy that which is meaningful to others and to history simply because you do not agree with or understand it.
1.4.1.1. Pro: [Iconoclasm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iconoclasm#Political_and_revolutionary_iconoclasm) has led to the destruction of many important pieces of art in the past.
1.4.2. Con: Not all censorship is problematic. Censorship is indeed necessary at times to prevent social harm.
1.5. Pro: In showcasing this work for the masses without providing any type of clarification, The Met is supporting voyeurism and the objectification of children.
1.5.1. Con: The provision of any sort of art does not necessarily constitute an endorsement.
1.5.1.1. Pro: Following this logic, the Met could be accused of condoning violence by displaying paintings of violent scenes.
1.5.2. Con: Conclusion does not follow. It is far more likely that the Met is trying to renew interest and discussion for a relatively unknown 20th century artist of great talent. A little more context on the artist and his time and place might help the public understand this piece better however.
1.6. Pro: The painting suggests that Balthus was a pedophile. Society should not condone paedophilic fantasies or recognise them as art.
1.6.1. Con: Not all poses in paintings are requested or initiated by the artist.
1.6.1.1. Pro: A child might strike a pose of this nature in innocence, and the artist may wish to capture and show the innocence, not capitalize on the possibly suggestive nature.
1.6.1.1.1. Pro: If someone was to say an adolescent girl was being immodest by taking her shirt off on a hot day, they would likely be branded a pervert for seeing a child as a sex object.
1.6.2. Con: He also painted a lot of cats. This does not preclude that he was engaged in bestiality.
1.6.3. Con: There have never been actual reports from family, his wife, friends or the models themselves that suggest that this was the case.
1.6.4. Con: The models were often the children of friends. They would not knowingly put their children in harm's way.
1.6.5. Con: The painting suggests sexual awakening. It is a garden of Eden story template. Innocence to knowing or gnosis.
1.6.6. Con: We should not condone censorship based upon our own failures of imagination or lack of understanding. This painting is far richer in meaning than a casual glance reveals.
1.6.7. Con: -> See 1.4.1.
1.7. Con: If we remove the Balthus because it offends some people we would have to purge entire collections of art since judging if something is offensive or not is completely subjective.
1.7.1. Pro: Balthus is not the only painter that has a dubious track record.
1.7.1.1. Con: Because there are others who 'do wrong' doesn't mean action can not be taken against one individual unless we take action against all transgressions at once.
1.7.1.2. Con: The core of the problem is not his 'track record' but what is depicted in the specific painting. His track record does not matter.
1.7.2. Pro: The Sistine Chapel's ceiling depicts Adam, who Muslims consider a prophet of God, and Islam frowns upon depiction of abrahamic prophets. Art will sometimes offend, and the offended party should simply not look at it.
1.7.3. Con: Society has reached the consensus - culturally and legally - that sexually objectifying minors is immoral and unacceptable - there is nothing subjective about it.
1.7.4. Pro: The statue of David is brazenly waving his suspiciously adolescent genitals at all who come to view him. He'd have to go too by these rules.
1.7.5. Con: Simply because moral judgement can be considered subjective does not mean we can not conform to it by consensus. This does not automatically mean we have to start responding to every individual case of offence.
1.8. Con: Art should be judged by the reaction it gets from its viewers. The current response is testament to the piece's effectiveness as a work of art.
1.8.1. Pro: One of Balthus' goals in his paintings is to show the difference between the painting itself and what the adult viewer might project onto it.
1.8.1.1. Con: Some of his art is very erotically charged. Such as [Guitar Lesson](https://www.wikiart.org/en/balthus/guitar-lesson-1934) which depicts an upskirted girl's exposed genitals while an older woman pulls on her hair. A collection of his art can be seen [here](https://www.wikiart.org/en/balthus/all-works#!#filterName:all-paintings-chronologically,resultType:masonry)
1.8.1.2. Pro: Works of Balthus like Figure in Front of a Mantel, Bust of the Young Girl, Getting Up, and Sleeping Nude depict young girls in varying states of undress, but in non-erotic contexts. You can see these [here](https://www.wikiart.org/en/balthus/all-works#!#filterName:all-paintings-chronologically,resultType:masonry).
1.8.2. Pro: The painting is meant to make people think about the darkness of pedophilloic thoughts. Even if this is a dark topic, it is better to address it than to refuse to address it at all.
1.8.3. Pro: The fact it can make viewers confront issues years after it was made is all the more impressive.
1.8.4. Con: [11,260 people](https://www.thepetitionsite.com/157/407/182/metropolitan-museum-of-art-remove-balthus-suggestive-painting-of-a-pubescent-girl-th%C3%A9r%C3%A8se-dreaming/) have signed a petition for it to be removed. Clearly, if audience judgement is the metric that is going to be used, there is a case for it to be removed.
1.9. Con: Not enough people have called for it to be taken down to justify the move.
1.9.1. Pro: The petition had [under 12,000 signatures](https://www.thepetitionsite.com/157/407/182/), which represents less than 0.00003% of the population.
1.9.2. Con: A social institution as the Met has a responsibility to engage with society. A petition is a valid and accepted way to engage a institution in dialog