Discussion Title: Should The Date of Australia Day Be Changed?

1. The date of Australia Day should be changed.
1.1. Pro: January 26th has only been observed as a public holiday since 1994. Because there is no long standing history, there should be less resistance to change.
1.2. Pro: There are other dates, which are equally important in founding modern Australia, that could instead be celebrated.
1.3. Con: The sins of the parent cannot be blamed on the children. Current Australians are blameless for their ancestors actions.
1.3.1. Pro: At some point finger pointing and blaming must stop if a fully realised future is to be actualised.
1.3.2. Con: Symbolism is a deep part of the psychology of mankind. While we may not be personally responsible, and should not be held personally responsible, gestures to pull people together can be helpful.
1.4. Con: Australian history is problematic, a date change does not erase any atrocities. The current date can remind us of our complicated history \(to accept our guilt and grief\), but also allow us to recognise and continue our growth as a nation.
1.4.1. Pro: Recognition of the past and the mistakes which had been committed helps to forge a national identity inclusive of the indigenious as well as all of us who calls Australia home. It is a day of resounding pride, sorrow, and regret. But that is the tale of our national identity as a whole.
1.4.2. Con: Then maybe a renaming of Australia day to Invasion day \(or another more accurate name\) as well as changing the date would be a better option. That way, people will remember the atrocities of Australian history, understand Aboriginal cultures better and be able to show pride in their nation. \(Not sure if this is a pro or a con\)
1.5. Pro: Th original Australians have suffered because of white settlement.
1.5.1. Con: The original Australians are not being harmed today. Today, the descendants of the original Australians can choose to play victims of something that is not happening, or participate as equals.
1.5.1.1. Pro: It is important for societies to look forward and forgive the past.
1.5.2. Con: Many things, good and bad came out of Arthur philips colinisation. It is cherry picking to focus on only one.
1.6. Con: Australia currently enjoys one of the best lifestyles in the world and the indigenous people are beneficiaries of that.
1.6.1. Con: Indigenous Australians have shorter life spans than non-indigenous Australians [aihw.gov.au](https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/indigenous-australians/mortality-life-expectancy-2008-2012/contents/summary)
1.6.1.1. Con: Shorter lifespan is attributable to genetic and cultural differences, as well as poor lifestyle choices. Shorter life span is not something that New Australians do to Aboriginals.
1.6.2. Con: This is more of a happy coincidence \(for as much as it actually applies\) than addressing the concerns aboriginals put forward about the day. Aboriginal's grievances are about the memories and meaning of the date, not how modern services and the economy coincidentally benefit them.
1.7. Pro: If it offends people, the date should be changed.
1.7.1. Con: Offence alone is not meaningful reason to change the date. The underlying reason for that offence needs to be understood, and meaningful action to address that specifically applied.
1.7.2. Con: There will be no end if Australia continues to make concessions to aboriginals.
1.7.2.1. Con: In 2008, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd offered a [national apology](https://www.australia.gov.au/about-australia/our-country/our-people/apology-to-australias-indigenous-peoples) for wrong doings to Indiginous Australians. That did not start an endless cycle of concessions for Aboriginals.
1.7.2.2. Con: One request does not equate to progressive requests.
1.8. Con: The indigineous people have many greater problems to solve that are more than symbolism.
1.8.1. Con: We don't need to compare woes, lets address them all
1.8.2. Con: Symbolism is important as it sends a message of support and encouragement to the minority from the majority. Changing the date sends a message of respect to aboriginal people that we value their culture and we regret the negative impacts of invasion. Such a symbolic gesture may build cultural pride and respect both within aboriginal culture and throughout broader Australian cultural groups that may help alleviate some of the other problems in both aboriginal and wider Australian society
1.9. Pro: Some people consider it celebrating genocide.
1.9.1. Pro: According to the leader of the Aboriginal community, [Simon Japandgari Fisher](http://www.abc.net.au/news/2018-01-26/what-do-remote-aboriginal-communities-think-of-australia-day/9363470), his people do not celebrate Australia Day because it beginning of tragedy for them.
1.9.2. Con: Australia Day's celebration has never traditionally been about celebrating the tragedies that surrounded white settlement. Australia Day can be used as a time for reflection, and celebration, which the existing Australia Day date could achieve.