Discussion Title: Should Rapists Have One Testicle Surgically Removed As Punishment?

1. The punishment for convicted rapists should be to have one testicle surgically removed.
1.1. Pro: This punishment could be made optional and offered in lieu of a jail sentence, so that it is self-selected.
1.1.1. Con: Offering this punishment in lieu of a jail sentence negates one of the core aims of the prison system- to protect members of society from dangerous people.
1.2. Con: Testicles have nothing to do with rape.
1.2.1. Con: Testicles produce testosterone, the hormone associated with sex drive and aggression. Rape is aggressive sexual attack. They are directly linked.
1.2.1.1. Con: Not all rape is violent; often it is coercive or in other ways non-aggressive.
1.2.1.2. Con: There is absolutely no evidence to support this assertion.
1.2.2. Con: It is significantly more difficult to rape a person without testicles.
1.2.2.1. Pro: A man without testicles cannot get a natural erection.
1.2.3. Pro: Researchers found [white matter integrity abnormalities](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4936222/) in the brains of people convicted of rape that compromises their moral judgement and reward/motivation response. Thus, rape is not primarily driven by sexual urges.
1.3. Con: Until empirical evidence shows that a testectomy reduces incidences of committing rape, this is no different than any other exchange of self-mutilation for jail time. That the body part in question is a testicle is purely symbolic in this case.
1.3.1. Con: Testosterone is produced by the gonads \(by the Leydig cells in testes in men and by the ovaries in women\), although small quantities are also produced by the adrenal glands in both sexes.
1.3.2. Pro: Cancer doctors claim that one testicle is enough to produce normal levels of testosterone after having an partial orchiectomy.
1.3.3. Con: Studies done on convicted sexual predators show higher than average testosterone levels.
1.4. Con: Any mutilation, like capital punishment, is not reversible in case of court error. [Some convicted](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/wilbert-jones-louisiana-to-be-freed-after-1971-conviction-overturned/) rapists had their convictions overturned.
1.5. Pro: There probably will be very few second offenses and likely zero third offenses.
1.5.1. Pro: The deterrent effect of such a punishment would likely be disproportionate to other punishments, since it targets the convict's dignity and sense of masculinity.
1.6. Pro: A man with one testicle can still father children and live a normal life with no need for hormone therapy.
1.7. Pro: Convicted rapists who undergo the procedure will have diminished sex drive and aggression due to lower testosterone levels.
1.7.1. Con: [One testicle](http://www.issm.info/sexual-health-qa/how-might-removal-of-one-or-both-testicles-affect-a-mans-sex-life/) produces enough testosterone and sperm to compensate for the removed one. A man's sex drive will not be affected.
1.7.2. Pro: A man with no testicles will have little sex drive at all, meaning that more than one repeat offence would be nearly impossible.
1.8. Con: This law is inherently sexist by nature and does not address female rapists.
1.8.1. Con: The law could be easily adapted to female rapists by removing one ovary.
1.8.2. Con: Just because something solves part of a problem instead of a whole problem does not mean it should be dismissed completely.
1.9. Con: This law would set a dangerous precedent with regards to the state's power over individuals.
1.9.1. Con: Due to physiology, men have too much power over women. The state in this case would merely be compensating for this power imbalance.