Discussion Title: Should We Abolish Strict Regulation Over Crossing National Borders?

1. In pursuit of a globalised world, we should abolish strict regulation of national borders
1.1. Pro: Open borders would stimulate the economy of the host country
1.1.1. Pro: A more diverse workforce creates more choices for hiring, making it easier for small businesses to find workers and for big businesses to expand.
1.1.2. Con: More workers does not necessarily mean an improvement of the workforce. Sub-par workers might even prove harmful to the host country.
1.1.2.1. Pro: Simply having a lot of workers usually means rapid production at the cost of quality, similar to what China experienced.
1.1.2.1.1. Pro: Production of low quality products would harm a country's 'brand' i.e. Korea producing good smartphones, Germany producing good cars
1.1.2.2. Con: By allowing migration of workers, you allow skilled workers to come in. This creates a competitive situation where the sub-par workers would need to better themselves to be seen in the hiring process. This results in better workers.
1.1.3. Pro: An influx of immigrants would create more demand for product which in turn creates more jobs.
1.1.4. Pro: In addition to producing needed goods and services, immigrants are also customers and investors and savers.
1.2. Con: Strict regulation of national borders is a form of security and protection for nation-states in a globalised world.
1.2.1. Pro: In the event that the market fails in a globalized world, the only way for a nation-state to survive is to practice its sovereignty by imposing strict regulation over crossing national borders.
1.2.2. Con: It is not the only protection for nation-states.
1.2.3. Con: The very usefulness and suitability of the nation-state is questionable.
1.3. Pro: In modern globalized markets capital is free to move, but workers are not. This greatly empowers multinational corporations and imperialist powers to victimize workers in the global south \(primarily\), and weaken workers right in the developed world.
1.3.1. Con: Capital is not free to move entirely. There are many regulations and restrictions by banks and governments in some locations to hamper free movement.

However, it is certainly getting easier with time and the advent of new technologies are making it easier to cross these digital divides.
1.3.2. Pro: Labor freedom and wage equity go together in a free market system. Workers should be able to work where their skills are most valued.
1.4. Pro: With the advent of internet proliferation over the world, data and information moves freely between countries. People should be able to do the same.
1.5. Pro: Individuals do not choose where they are born; it is essentially random. Given this national borders are arbitrary and people should be free to live where they want.
1.5.1. Pro: Borders are put in place often by force for unjust reasons. We should work to minimize these historical injustices.
1.5.2. Con: We always inherit the world we are born into. There is no one born into an ideal world.
1.6. Con: A globalized world is a threat to less empowered ethnicities and cultures. It would remove barriers against wealthy societies imposing their values and norms on vulnerable societies.
1.7. Pro: Human rights benefit when people have sufficient mobility relative to goods.
1.7.1. Pro: It has become widely accepted that people have the general right to leave their house, their village, their state and their country as long as they are not seeking to control land and resources that do not belong to them. The other side of this coin is that others recognize that right.
1.7.2. Con: Social contracts such as social norms and unwritten expectations can also be violated when immigration is uncontrolled. It changes the "fabric of society."
1.8. Con: Powerful governments serve as a bulwark against powerful corporations. While both governments and corporations are necessary social institutions in modern life, borders provide a check on corporate power.
1.9. Con: Open borders would further the wealth imbalance among states
1.9.1. Con: A globalised world would mean treating all states as part of one greater whole, meaning that some states being more urbanized than others is not necessarily a bad thing.
1.9.1.1. Pro: In the context of globalisation, some states would serve as urban centres or metros while others would serve as rural or agricultural areas more focused on providing support to the urban areas.
1.9.1.2. Pro: States that become 'suppliers' for richer states will also benefit from the increased growth in other states due to the nature of a globalised world.
1.9.2. Con: There is no evidence to support this. Open commerce and borders between states tend to equalize economies; we should expect the similar results with more open natioanl borders.
1.9.3. Pro: People migrate to look for better opportunities. Naturally, those from poorer states would gravitate towards richer states.
1.9.3.1. Pro: Problems that make poor states poor i.e. corruption, illiteracy; would be left unsolved as majority of those with the ability to migrate would be those who enjoyed privilege in their state of origin. There would be no giving back.
1.10. Con: Open borders would harm the native population.
1.10.1. Pro: People from foreign cultures will not be able to assimilate with the local population, leading to animosity within the community.
1.10.2. Con: Immigrants would provide increased competition in the job market, compelling locals to better themselves in order to gain an edge.
1.10.2.1. Pro: Better equipped locals would mean a more robust local workforce which would lessen the reliance on immigrants.
1.10.3. Con: People who become accustomed to diversity usually come to value the strengths that a diverse population brings.
1.10.4. Pro: Unskilled immigrants will rely on handouts from the host government, taking away government funds from natives who need aid themselves.
1.10.4.1. Con: There is no difference between an immigrant or a native who needs help putting food on the table.
1.11. Pro: There is a correlation between more immigrants and less crime in the United States.
1.11.1. Pro: States that accept refugees have 35.5 fewer crimes for every 10,000 people compared to states that are closed off.
1.11.2. Pro: From 1990 to 2013, foreign-born people in the US grew from 7.9% to 13.1%, the number of unauthorized immigrants rose from 3.5 million to 11.2 million. During the same period violent crime fell by 48% and property crime fell by 41%. [americanimmigrationcouncil.org](https://www.americanimmigrationcouncil.org/research/criminalization-immigration-united-states)
1.11.3. Con: Unrestricted immigration does not let nations filter out criminal elements who have a record of violating laws.