Discussion Title: Should School Begin at Three Years Old?

1. School Should Start at Three Years Old.
1.1. Con: Having school compulsory removes some liberty for parents. Some parents have the time and expertise to homeschool their children, but would not be able to do so.
1.1.1. Con: This is untrue; homeschooling is [perfectly legal](https://smartexpat.com/france/how-to-guides/family/schools/home-schooling) in France, it just needs to start younger than in previous years.
1.2. Con: Such an obligation wouldn't necessarily increase the rate of school enrolment. A more pedagogical approach could be more useful.
1.3. Con: If some children are unhappy and disturb the class, it decreases the quality of teaching for all children attending.
1.3.1. Con: Teachers know how to handle conflicts inside the class.
1.3.2. Con: Learning is not the only point of being in school, it is also a place for socializing.
1.3.2.1. Pro: Education in infant school is an important place of socialization, especially for children who live in disadvantaged areas.
1.3.2.1.1. Con: Other places can have this role, such as kindergarten or nursery.
1.3.2.1.1.1. Pro: Outside of nursery and kindergarten, other innovative places of socialisation exist for very young children. There are many possibilities for under-six-year-old children to interact with each other or other generations.
1.3.2.1.1.1.1. Pro: Some families create together educational spaces \(completely outside of school\), where children spend time together and start the learning process. Many activities are organized and the parents of the different families are the educators.
1.3.3. Con: This is true of any age of student.
1.3.4. Pro: Some children are not ready to follow strict schedules at such a young age.
1.4. Pro: It is already a habit because more than [97% of children](https://www.connexionfrance.com/Practical/Family/School-to-start-from-age-3-in-2019) are schooled at three years old.
1.4.1. Con: If it's already a habit for the French population, the bill the government want to pass is just for show.
1.5. Pro: -> See 1.3.2.1.
1.6. Con: It would demand a big cost. It is uncertain whether parents should be obliged to pay for additional years of education in schools for they kids or whether it should it be funded by the government \(from taxes, etc\).
1.7. Pro: Education at such a young age mostly consists of play and fun. For kids, it is an additional opportunity to make friends and spend their time pleasurably. It can teach the kids that school can be associated with positive things, not only the mathematics and grammar, that they will later face.
1.8. Con: Teachers don't always have an adapted training for very early childhood
1.8.1. Con: Teachers in pre-elementary schools do have this training. They already welcome very young children in their classroom. In France, children go to school for the first time during the year in which they turn 3 years old. So some begin a bit younger, at 2 1/2 years old. On top of that, the teachers are not alone in the classroom to take care of the kids, and specialists of the young-aged children are also employed by schools to be present for the youngest.
1.9. Con: The obligation of school from the age of three will help reduce the differences between geographical areas.
1.9.1. Con: The city councils will stay the ones deciding of the school policies of their town, no matter how much of a population goes to school at age 3. If the city council doesn't change its policies, the differences between the territories will remain.
1.10. Pro: It promotes equality. By making it an obligatory rule for every child to be at school from the age of three, there won't be a difference between children. They will all have the same opportunities, because they all will be inside the same educative system from the same point.
1.10.1. Con: School is already compulsory to the age [of ~16](https://isss.umn.edu/publications/USEducation/2.pdf) in many countries, and begins at [5/6ish years old](https://www.nfer.ac.uk/eurydice/compulsory-age-of-starting-school). Starting school at 3 would not make the system any fairer than it already is.
1.10.2. Pro: Some parents don't have the means \(financially, socially or culturally-speaking\) to educate their children with the same efficiency than school.