Discussion Title: Should Individuals Be Allowed Paid Period Leave?

1. Individuals should be allowed paid period leave.
1.1. Con: Fewer women would be employed due to the additional expense imposed upon employers by this provision.
1.1.1. Con: In order to respect gender equality quotas, companies will prioritize public opinion over monetary inconveniences from a minority workforce group \(around 20% of women\) who might benefit from the paid period leave.
1.1.1.1. Con: Gender equality quota?  If gender gender equality is a thing why are some advocating a special form of leave that immediately and entirely discriminates one gender over another?
1.1.2. Con: If period leave is sponsored by the government, companies will not fear losing money over the policy, so they will not employ fewer women.
1.1.2.1. Con: Covering wages is not the only cost involved in having people away. Think about the cost of lost production.
1.1.2.2. Con: Government involvement is not the answer to any problem we can't pay for ourselves. Plus, monetary loss is not the only issue.
1.1.2.3. Pro: The same happens with pregnancy leave.
1.1.3. Pro: With fewer women hired in companies that demand full presence, more women could get hired in long distance work \(work from home\). Thus, most companies where work presence is not necessary will have to restructure and adapt to the transformation.
1.1.4. Con: In most scenarios \(high employment rates, large populations\) the change wouldn't be significant.
1.2. Pro: Period pain, known as dysmenorrhea, can impair the person's fitness to work, so its presence should be treated as illness. In light of this, time off must be granted so that work efficiency can be ensured.
1.2.1. Pro: It is a [serious problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dysmenorrhea) that causes any number of effects, from pain to headaches, and can leave sufferers bedridden.
1.2.1.1. Con: Most women do not experience being bed ridden or other severe impairments as a result of period pain.
1.2.1.1.1. Con: The concept of 'most women' is irrelevant here. It is only those with serious dysmenorrhea that is being discussed.
1.2.2. Con: Any work is better than no work; even if the person's output isn't perfect, it is better than nothing.
1.2.2.1. Pro: In jobs where body count is essential \(quantitative\), any work is better than no work.
1.2.2.2. Con: In jobs where qualitative work is essential, period pain can affect the quality of the end product.
1.3. Con: This opens the door for a range of other externally imposed policy for employees with health issues.  For example: imposing an additional leave policy for alcoholic employees with a hangover/jitters etc because alcoholism is an illness.
1.3.1. Con: While addiction is an illness, it is avoidable, in a way that periods are not.
1.4. Con: Only around 20% of women suffer from debilitating dysmenorrhea, which would allow women who don't experience it to claim their days off allowance without a reasonable cause. This means that the period leave policies can be taken advantage of.
1.4.1. Con: This can be monitored and verified by a doctor if needed.
1.4.1.1. Con: How does one prove to a doctor that they have a debilitating menstrual condition other than describing symptoms to the doctor? This is something anyone, including those who don't experience that pain can do. Doctor's aren't going to refuse to write that note to a woman for fear of backlash.
1.5. Pro: In our contemporary workforce culture, most companies in developed countries value individuality and coming out with relevant concerns, previously hidden because of dogma. Thus, stigma around period pain should be abolished by adopting period leave policies during this coming out movement.
1.5.1. Con: Leave for periods will only heighten stigma by seemingly proving that women can't cope with periods.
1.5.2. Pro: Workplaces that can account for the individual nature of their employees leverage more productivity than those that don't.
1.6. Con: Period leave policies would worsen workplace sexism and stigma around feminism, as only women would be able to benefit from the days off. With such a gender-specific policy in place, men can accuse female coworkers of being unfairly advantaged, especially since dysmenorrhea cannot be attested for. Therefore, gender divide will increase.
1.6.1. Con: If companies will run enough educative campaigns, as well as inclusion and anti-discrimination training, such stigma should not exist. This is especially true if women can make up for their days off.
1.6.1.1. Con: If women were to make up for their days off, it would not be paid period leave.
1.6.2. Pro: Despite all social movements, there will always be some sort of sexism or another at company level. This is because it is a natural bias that can occur without one being aware of it. Hence, one can only hope a critical mass of men will support women regarding period leave, so that balance will be tilted in favor of the policy.
1.6.3. Pro: Feminism is about equality, not special treatment. Distinguishing between "paid sick leave" and "paid period leave" is discrimination based on biological gender.
1.7. Pro: Dysmenorrhea is medically proven to be an invisible disability, which is why it should be treated as a genuine illness.
1.7.1. Con: There are many types of disability that don't get paid time off. They may have other concessions put in place, but not paid time off.
1.8. Con: Women claiming to suffer from dysmenorrhea should be granted unpaid days off from work, like with any other unexpected illness.
1.8.1. Con: It isn't unexpected. It is a predictable monthly problem that has a serious impact on those experiencing it.
1.8.1.1. Con: Although periods are predictable, exact dates are not. Therefore, periods should be considered to have a degree of unpredictability, even if they are most likely going to happen around the same time every calendar month.
1.8.2. Pro: Unpaid days off from work in a 9-5 job can be made up for by working other days off such as weekend days or bank or public holidays.
1.8.2.1. Pro: -> See 1.6.1.1.
1.8.3. Pro: [Japanese law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Menstrual_leave#Laws) does not oblige companies to grant paid leave or extra-pay for women suffering from dysmenorrhea who decide to work despite the pain. Adopting unpaid period leave would thus be easier to implement, as days off will be used mostly by employees who genuinely need them.
1.9. Pro: Already-existent period leave policies, such as the one in place in [Japan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Menstrual_leave#Laws), have a long track record that proves they work, so adapting them to other countries or corporations should not be difficult.
1.9.1. Con: Studies that apply to Japan are only slightly relevant to the U.S. at best, due to a much larger, significantly more diverse population and current gender stigmas and conflicts.
1.9.2. Con: It is hard to know if there were indirect negative outcomes caused by the policy.