Discussion Title: Should Sierra Leone review and pass the Safe Abortion Bill into law?

1. Sierra Leone must review and pass the Safe Abortion Bill into law.
1.1. Pro: Reproductive choice empowers women by giving them control over their own bodies.
1.2. Pro: Legalized abortion prevents the emergence and growth of black markets that are substantially more harmful.
1.3. Con: Life begins at conception, so unborn babies are human beings with a right to life.
1.3.1. Con: There is much debate over when life begins. Therefore, the fetus may not have a right to life.
1.3.1.1. Pro: "My Body My Choice"
1.4. Con: Abortion leads to many harms to the mother.
1.4.1. Pro: It often leads to unwanted memories, which can result in stress and depression. Some women experience a feeling of guilt, which lasts for their whole lifetime. In short, abortion can turn out to be a lifetime worth of burden.
1.4.1.1. Con: Women should be informed about this risk but should have the ability to choose whether they want to go ahead with the procedure despite of this.
1.4.2. Pro: Having an abortion done always carries the risk of not being able to become pregnant ever again in life.
1.4.2.1. Con: Abortions performed by professionals have a lower chance of complications than illegal ones performed by less than optimal trained personnel.
1.4.2.2. Con: -> See 1.4.1.1.
1.4.3. Pro: Abortion can also lead to serious health complications, and in some cases the worst case scenario can be death.
1.4.3.1. Con: -> See 1.4.1.1.
1.4.3.2. Con: Technological advancements in abortion techniques have meant that the incursion of such harms is quite rare.
1.4.4. Con: If done with doctors inside a hospital, the risk massively decreases .
1.5. Pro: A woman can not be forced to produce a life, especially because it directly affects her. Abortion is an incredibly difficult decision to make but there are many reasons why women may choose to go ahead with it.
1.5.1. Pro: Rape victims especially should be allowed to terminate fetuses conceived due to rape.
1.5.2. Pro: Technologies have enabled disease detection amongst unborn babies. Women should be able to choose whether to terminate a fetus that may develop into a physically or mentally challenged human being.
1.5.2.1. Pro: We must trust women to make decisions that are right for them and accept that their decisions are right for them fullstop.  The decision to have an abortion is never taken lightly. No woman deserves to die because they choose to make a choice that is right for them at a given point in their lives. You just cannot stand in their shoes and cannot feel what they are going through that had warranted their decision to end a pregnancy.  Women are capable of making decisions about their bodies.
1.5.2.2. Pro: Children born with mental or physical inabilities place a huge financial burden on a family unit, one that they may not be able to fulfill.
1.5.2.3. Pro: Children born with physical or mental defects may require constant attention from their parents, something that they may not be able to give in pursuit of their aspirations.
1.5.2.4. Pro: The life of a child with mental or physical defects can be exceptionally hard and painful.
1.5.3. Pro: Asking teens who accidentally conceived fetuses, to rear them for the rest of their lives is a very high ask.
1.5.4. Con: There are reasons why a woman would choose abortion, but all of them ignore the child's right to life that should be protected for all innocent human beings.