Discussion Title: Should the Legion of Honor be restricted to war veterans?

1. Should the Legion of Honor be restricted to war veterans?
1.1. Con: As the prevalence of wars tend to decrease, the opportunities for making acts of courage while putting one's life at risk for the nation come scarce. Another way of service to the nation has to be brought up.
1.1.1. Con: France is currently involved in [several armed conflicts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_wars_involving_France) across Africa and the Middle East.
1.1.2. Con: Even if there are fewer opportunities to get recognised in war, it doesn't mean the same rate of recognitions is needed, or that less important acts also need to be recognised. If there are no wars, there shouldn't be no new Legion of Honor members.
1.1.2.1. Pro: Historically, there have been more recognitions during or immediately following wars. Hence, no recognitions when there are no wars is just an extrapolation of the normal trend.
1.2. Con: This medal aims at thanking citizens for "great service to the nation". This should not necessarily involve being on the battleground. Famous people who give a positive image of the country, or make great diplomatic moves contribute just as much to the well-being of the country.
1.2.1. Pro: Moreover, these contributions are not paired with killing other people in war which, even if sometimes justified, is ethically reprobable.
1.3. Pro: Veterans have few opportunities to see their dedication being officially acknowledged to its true value. Therefore, a specific "prize" should be kept exclusively for them.
1.3.1. Con: There are prizes specifically for soldiers already, such as the Médaille militaire.
1.4. Pro: Giving one's life for the nation is a sacrifice like no other. This act of courage cannot be but on an equal footstep with good singers or football players.
1.4.1. Con: Giving one's life for the nation is an ideal that has outlived its relevance.
1.4.2. Con: While football players and singers may not deserve such a commendation, there are civilians who [risk their lives](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/spiderman-france-rescue-paris-mali-hero-toddler-mamoudou-gassam-emmanuel-macron-video-a8372456.html) to help others and deserve recognition.
1.5. Con: This "prize" wasn't originally intended to thank war heroism only.
1.5.1. Pro: The Legion of Honor was created as a reward for both civilian and military actions action in service of the nation.
1.6. Con: The Legion of Honor should give an incentive to all citizens to act positively for their country, and not be an opportunity for members of the army exclusively.
1.6.1. Pro: There are many ways to make big contributions for one's country that are peaceful and deserve proper recognition.
1.7. Pro: War veterans who currently witness the broadening of the "scope of attribution" often refuse to wear the medal, as a sign of protest. They believe that their courage should not be considered equal to a great singer's performance.
1.8. Pro: The army has increasing difficulties hiring people. Having a special prize as potential benefit could help stir more vocations.
1.8.1. Con: There are other benefits that could be used to attract recruits, which are material in nature and may align better with the spirit of time.
1.8.2. Con: Difficulties hiring new soldiers is a sign of decreasing need for an army in the first place.