Discussion Title: Should voters in the UK have a final vote on the Brexit deal?

1. Voters in the UK should have a final vote on the Brexit deal.
1.1. Con: There are other alternatives to solving this problem, that do not require another referendum.
1.1.1. Pro: The electorate should have a vote, but not a referendum. Both parties should be suspended and parliament re-organised on the Brexit lines of deal, no-deal and remain. An election on those lines should solve many problems.
1.1.1.1. Con: Except the party position for some isn’t clear. Any election would have more aspects than Brexit, and at the moment two of the main parties are very broken.
1.1.2. Con: There are, but none that aren’t hijacked by people claiming “the will of the people”. While that’s a poor argument for an advisory referendum, a people’s vote looks like the only viable option.
1.2. Pro: The damage to the UK. economy caused by the vote to leave the EU two years ago already exceeds the size of the budget contributions Britain will be able to claw back when it finally leaves the bloc. Leave campaign promised £350m/week for the NHS and it has already costed almost £500m/week \([Report](https://www.cer.eu/insights/cost-brexit-june-2018)\). Add to that what the government has already spent \([Brexit costs](https://www.instituteforgovernment.org.uk/news/latest/new-report-reveals-cost-brexit)\).
1.3. Pro: There were people heavily affected by the vote's turnout who did not get to vote, such as expat British citizens or future generations.
1.3.1. Pro: The generation this will affect the most did not have a say on the result of the referendum.
1.3.1.1. Con: The voting pool is constantly changing. In one year's time there will be more people who will have turned 18. This would mean the referendum should be repeated every year.
1.3.1.2. Pro: This event will likely dictate international relations for generations to come. It is only fair that the British people \(especially younger generations\) get to vote on those terms.
1.3.1.3. Con: There's no proof these people will be affected the most. It depends on the medium term outcome of the negotiations.
1.3.1.4. Con: This however is true of every election or referendum ever. The decisions people make now will always effect future people and generations who have no say in the now. It was true of the first referendum too. Using it as an excuse for a second referendum as if something has changed is disingenuous.
1.3.1.5. Con: Young people are, in general, not yet sufficiently sophisticated and experienced to be giving a say on important matters of state. They are furthermore  typically impressionable, rash and  unable to  control their emotions.
1.3.1.6. Con: Those who were too young to vote for the original vote to join the common market have just had their chance to vote, and voted to leave.
1.3.1.6.1. Con: The Common Market referendum was in 1975, at which time the voting age was 18, therefore anyone below the age of 59 at the time of the 2016 EU referendum would have been too young to vote in the 1975 Common Market referendum. The majority of those [under the age](https://yougov.co.uk/news/2016/06/27/how-britain-voted/) of 59 at that time voted to Remain.
1.3.1.7. Pro: Many citizens have since turned 18 \(voting age\) since the referendum and should have a say.
1.3.2. Pro: Many expat British citizens couldn't vote and this has huge implications for them and they should have the chance to have their say.
1.3.2.1. Con: Only people who hadn't lived in the UK for at least 15 years were not allowed to vote. This is perfectly reasonable.
1.3.2.1.1. Pro: If people who have lived outside the UK for \>15 years were more pro-EU than those who have lived in the UK over this period \(which hasn't been established\) it would indicate that the lived experience of being in Britain over this period and dealing with practical issues caused by the EU has been negative.
1.3.2.1.1.1. Con: A pro-EU preference for those living abroad may instead indicate that those who have chosen to live abroad are more open to cultural exchange and freedom of movement, both of which were arguments for 'Remain'.
1.3.2.1.1.1.1. Con: Far more Brits who live abroad live outside the EU than inside the EU, so it a priori seems unlikely they will have a pro-EU preference given this means that the UK will be forced to discriminate against the country in which they live.
1.3.2.1.2. Con: It is reasonable to assume that someone living in the EU would be supportive of retaining the right to do so. British citizens living in the EU are among the most directly affected and should have been eligible to vote regardless of time outside the UK, especially as they are ineligible to vote in elections in their country of residence.
1.3.2.1.2.1. Con: One could argue that they have a vested self-interest for their own good, rather than in national interests and the best for others and the country as a whole. This might be seen as a reason why their vote should be excluded.
1.3.2.1.2.1.1. Con: This is not how democracy works. People, as UK citizens, regardless of where they live, should be allowed to vote and choose how to vote; regardless of their reasons, this is a fundamental principle of democracy.
1.3.2.1.2.1.1.1. Con: An uninformed vote, a falsely informed one or one done in suggestive manner \(not in prescriptive\) ought not be used for any decision. This is why most countries in the world have representative democracy, where elected officials can make more informed decisions.
1.3.2.1.3. Con: It may instead indicate that those who have managed to get jobs abroad are more educated and therefore more aware of the potential negative effects of Brexit.
1.3.2.1.3.1. Con: There is no evidence to suggest that those who voted for Brexit were less educated or less aware of the potential negative effects of Brexit.
1.3.2.1.3.1.1. Pro: Some may have \(and indeed, many did\) voted to leave despite the potential negative effects, feeling that the positives or potential benefits outweighed them or were otherwise more important then the negative consequences and effects.
1.3.2.1.3.2. Con: There is no evidence whatsoever that those living abroad have a pro-EU preference. If those living abroad are more open to cultural exchange and freedom of movement, they may resent the fact that UK immigration is masaicely prejudiced in favour of people from one of 27 other European countries to the detriment of the rest of the world, and so have an pro-Brexit preference.
1.3.2.2. Con: It’s unlikely UK citizens abroad would be more pro-EU.
1.3.2.3. Con: Apparently \([according to this article in the Guardian](http://bit.ly/2LuXa5V)\), the 15-years-rule is a general rule in the British voting system. To question the rules of the British voting system is out of scope for a discussion of Brexit.
1.3.2.4. Con: According to [this UK government website](https://www.gov.uk/government/topical-events/eu-referendum/about#who-can-vote-in-the-referendum), "UK citizens resident overseas will also be eligible to vote, provided they have been registered to vote at a UK address in the last 15 years."
1.3.3. Con: None of these people should have been allowed to vote.
1.3.3.1. Pro: Only citizens are and should be allowed to vote on the future of the country. Using "future generations" as an argument is hollow, the same statement could be made about anything anytime, regardless of the outcome.
1.3.3.2. Pro: UK citizens who have not lived in the UK for over 15 years are not sufficiently in touch with UK life to be given a say on matters that affect UK life.
1.3.3.2.1. Con: This is not necessarily true, they may well have frequent contact or visits, or simply be well informed.
1.3.3.3. Pro: EU citizens resident in the UK, aside from Irish, Maltese and Cypriots, have not pledged allegiance to the UK and so should not be given a vote in matters of State.
1.3.3.4. Pro: -> See 1.3.1.5.
1.4. Con: The negative practicalities of running a referendum do not warrant going through one again.
1.4.1. Pro: A second vote will cause a very violent reaction from those that are having their first vote ignored. Those campaigning for remain may be attacked by newly disenfrancised Brexit voters.
1.4.2. Pro: The last referendum was an unpleasant, divisive, all-consuming ordeal. Citizens will not want to be subjected to all of that again.
1.4.2.1. Con: As the leave lies have been exposed one by one and what was deemed 'project fear' is looking more and more like a conservative estimate of the damage leaving the EU will do, a little discomfort pales into insignicance in comparison
1.4.2.2. Pro: It could be argued that the rhetoric and atmosphere seen during the first referendum could become more feverish. The country was shown to be very divided and those same divisions could resurface.
1.4.2.2.1. Con: The divisions that surfaced during the first referendum have not gone away and are still there. it is highly likely that another referendum would be highly polarising and lead to more bitterness and hard feelings.
1.4.2.3. Con: The impact of leaving the EU will be felt for far longer than the emotional impact of a referendum. Short-term improvement should not be prioritised at the expense of long-term harm.
1.4.2.3.1. Pro: Without stringent EU Laws, product and employee safety; consumer and employee rights; human rights - especially for those with protected characteristics - would all be at the whim of UK law makers, who would have the power to revoke these laws if they prove unpopular with their party donors.
1.4.2.4. Pro: Another vote on the Brexit Deal can only make things worse as it would be polarizing across the board.
1.4.2.4.1. Pro: Results might polarize hard-brexiters.
1.4.2.4.1.1. Pro: Some might argue that 'the rejected Deal was too soft an too much pro-EU'.
1.4.2.4.1.2. Pro: Some might argue that 'the adopted Deal is not what we wanted, it is too weak'.
1.4.2.4.2. Pro: Results might polarize anti-Brexiteers.
1.4.2.4.2.1. Pro: Some might find that 'the rejected Deal was too strongly anti-EU' or that 'the adopted Deal repeats the Brexit vote, but people will change their minds as soon as they will be really out of the EU.'
1.4.2.4.3. Con: Once Brexit has happened, there is no point on voting on it anymore. The consequences of such a vote are unclear.
1.4.2.5. Con: Some of the divisions during the initial referendum arose from uncertainty over what Brexit would actually mean. This would not be an issue with a referendum on the Brexit deal.
1.4.3. Pro: A referendum is expensive. It is risky to make one if there are good chances the result won't change. And based on how the government embraced Brexit, this is quite likely.
1.4.3.1. Con: If the claims of the Brexit campaign are to be believed, the money saved by leaving the EU will make this claim irrelevant; it will pay for itself. If the claims of the Remain campaign are to be believed, the result of not having the referendum will be far more costly than having it. Either way, the cost of the referendum is largely irrelevant.
1.4.4. Pro: Business hates uncertainty.  A referendum continues that uncertainty.
1.4.4.1. Con: The fluid and chaotic approach of the government to the negotiations means that there is continuing uncertainty up to the point that a new referendum would take place in any case.
1.4.4.2. Con: With the right question a new people's vote would lead clearly either to the deal as negotiated being implemented, or a decision to remain in the EU.  Neither of these is an outcome that leads to more uncertainty.
1.4.4.3. Con: Businesses hate lost profits more than uncertainty.  Businesses that stand to lose from Brexit would welcome a new vote.
1.4.5. Con: The negative practicalities of Brexit do not warrant going through with it if public opinion has changed.
1.4.5.1. Con: This assumes that it is possible to reverse it, a fact that has not been positively established at this point.
1.4.5.1.1. Con: Almost certainly it can be, but there is a legal challenge going through at the moment to clarify this.
1.5. Pro: The referendum did not spell out the nature of the future relationship with the EU nor the consequences of Brexit. Voters will have a clearer idea of what is on offer at the end of the negotiating process.
1.5.1. Pro: There is a subset of voters who voted to leave the European Union, but who did not want to leave a customs union or the single market. Many of them would prefer to remain if this is the cost of leaving. The government's proposal for Brexit, even if successfully negotiated, ignores their position entirely.
1.5.2. Pro: The previous election voted in a government with no clear mandate for the future British/EU relations, as no party had clear Brexit policies. With no mandate for what the future relationship will be, there is a clear need for a people's vote on the future EU relationship. This can be achieved via election with parties outlining the future relationship, or referendum. The latter would be non-partisan, with a clearer indication of the will of the people
1.5.3. Pro: Obviously asking the electorate their opinion on the terms of the UK leaving via a second referendum would not be asking the same questions on the ballot slip. It would therefore not be a re-run and is a perfectly democratic process given what is now known about the implications of leaving.
1.5.4. Pro: The implications for the north/south Irish border and Northern Ireland peace process weren't even considered during the 1st referendum.
1.5.5. Pro: The complexities and consequences of not being in the EU are becoming more known now by every day people, the British public are now far more informed now about how complex the issue actually so know more about what a future deal may look like.
1.5.5.1. Pro: The public can only truly be informed, once terms of an arrangement are stipulated. Once informed they can consent giving democratic legitimacy to the arrangement. Voting on final deal should not have capacity to void initial vote to leave; effectively final vote should only conclude or potentially amend the terms being proposed.
1.5.5.1.1. Pro: The UK joined in 1973 and had a referendum in 1975 knowing what the terms of entry were. In 2016 only the Remainers knew for sure what they were voting for which is why the UK needs to hold a vote on the deal when everyone can make an informed decision to leave or stay in. That is informed democracy.
1.5.5.2. Con: The complexities of not being in the EU were always a known unknown. The UK voted leave knowing that to begin 'afresh' outside the EU carried significant uncertainties.
1.5.5.2.1. Con: People are short sighted. According to [Google Trends](https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?date=today%205-y&geo=GB&q=EU) during the week of the referendum the search term ''EU'' spiked to it's highest point in the last 5 years. Indicating that people were not looking far into the future when they voted.
1.5.6. Pro: The final deal reached may not honour the original outcome of the referendum, which was for the UK to leave the EU.
1.5.7. Con: Voting was not defined by lack of information, it was defined by ignorance. More information will not change this.
1.5.7.1. Con: Plenty of facts are being created that are very hard to ignore, most notably companies shifting their activities. Also, the progress \(or lack thereof\) of negotiations with the EU.
1.5.7.1.1. Con: An argument could equally be made that the lack of progress is not reason for a new vote on the Brexit deal, but for a more efficient and competent Government negotiating team.
1.5.8. Pro: It is now clear that some of the possible models for leaving that were discussed in the referendum are no longer on offer.
1.5.8.1. Pro: Nigel Farage, Arron Banks, and other prominent "leavers" [made it appear](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0xGt3QmRSZY) that the UK could leave the EU while remaining in the single market, and some voters would have made their decision on this basis. This however has been removed as an option by the Conservative government. If this was known in advance of the referendum, the vote may have gone differently.
1.5.8.1.1. Con: Farage et al did not make it appear we could stay in the single market. The video cited above uses selective editing to lie about what was being said by those leave campaigners. [Anatomy of a smear](https://www.kingdomcomment.com/blog/anatomy-of-a-smear-dan-hannan) is an expose. The propaganda machine is gearing up to manipulate people who voted remain.
1.5.8.1.1.1. Con: [Hannan](https://youtu.be/zzykce4oxII) quite clearly states "no-one is suggesting we wouldn't have the same kind of deal that Switzerland has, or the Channel Islands have, in other words the free movement of goods, services and capital but living under our own laws".
1.5.8.1.2. Con: Any rational individual would realise that leaving the EU would also mean leaving the common or single market and customs union. To believe people did not understand this is an insult to people's intelligence.
1.5.8.1.2.1. Con: Liam Fox [on free trade](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/final-say-brexit-referendum-lies-boris-johnson-leave-campaign-remain-a8466751.html#explainer-question-1): "The free trade agreement that we will have to do with the European Union should be one of the easiest in human history". Liam Fox on [immigration policy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W4k8cZOUd5g) : "I would call an open and shut immigration policy"
1.5.8.1.2.2. Con: Daniel Hannan on [free trade](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/final-say-brexit-referendum-lies-boris-johnson-leave-campaign-remain-a8466751.html#explainer-question-5): "Absolutely nobody is talking about threatening our place in the single market". Daniel Hannan on [immigration policy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rCghi2rVaWY): "It doesn't mean free movement of people, but free movement of labor , it doesn't mean EU citizenship with all the acquired rights"
1.5.8.1.3. Pro: [Oliver Norgrove](https://www.newstatesman.com/politics/staggers/2017/08/if-brexit-was-vote-leave-single-market-why-didnt-campaigners-say-so), a former Vote Leave staffer, wrote that "we argue for things which are utterly achievable in the EEA and make no mention at all of leaving the single market".
1.5.8.1.3.1. Con: The views of Oliver Norgrove are hardly relevant. Even he acknowledges in the cited source that both Leave and Remain campaigns said that it was a vote to leave the single market.
1.5.8.1.3.2. Con: Oliver Norgrove was not a prominent leaver.
1.5.8.1.4. Pro: Boris Johnson wrote in his column for [The Telegraph](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/boris-johnson-eu-referendum-single-market-brexit-a7104846.html) that Britain "will still have access to the single market"
1.5.8.1.5. Con: Every prominent brexiteer said that a vote to leave would be a vote to end free movement of people. The EU has made clear that free movement of people must be accepted by countries in the single market. The single market must therefore be left.
1.5.8.1.5.1. Con: -> See 1.5.8.1.2.2.
1.5.8.1.5.2. Con: -> See 1.5.8.1.2.1.
1.5.9. Con: If the British government and public voted to action something without fully understanding the consequences, then that's on the British people. All individuals have to deal with unintended consequences of big decisions in their lives. People usually look at the contingencies first, but if they don't, then that's on them.
1.5.9.1. Con: Suffering the consequences of a vote as a rule without any redress not only means the end of any democracy, but a return to royal decree and ignoring the courts. Such a system would never evolve.
1.5.9.2. Con: If at the point of realisation of such a scenario where ill-informed decisions have negative implications for generations of an entire country, a correction and revision is possible, the initiative must be taken to re-run the vote to prevent the worst.
1.5.10. Con: Both sides during the campaign claimed that leaving EU means leaving its institutions: Common Market, Customs Union etc.
1.5.10.1. Pro: Even David Cameron knew that the leave vote was a vote to [leave the single market](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zNnh-KhiLm0) and the jurisdiction of the ECJ.
1.5.10.2. Con: But this was not on the ballot. It asked only a single question, not how it would be implemented. Better to have the opportunity to also have a public agreement on this most important of details.
1.5.10.3. Con: There were strong claims by leave campaigners that Britain could remain in the [single market](https://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/entry/open-britain-video-single-market-nigel-farage-anna-soubry_uk_582ce0a0e4b09025ba310fce?guccounter=1) and adopt a Norway or Switzerland option, and without leave voters who believed these reassurances, leave may not have won.
1.5.11. Con: Remaining would not spell out the nature of the future relationship of the EU or even which version of the EU the relationship would be with. A new country could join and claim, "that's not the EU we voted to join". The re-vote argument works both ways and could go on forever.
1.5.11.1. Con: The UK has a [veto](http://theconversation.com/fact-check-would-the-uk-have-a-veto-on-turkey-joining-the-eu-59844) on new members.
1.6. Con: A vote would not help to reach any practical outcomes, making it pointless.
1.6.1. Pro: A second referendum would not help the government to reach the right decision.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Let's say 60% vote against the deal, half of them because they want to be more independent from the EU and half because they want to be tied more closely to the EU. A No vote would not give the government clear instructions and so is not a good idea.
1.6.1.2. Pro: Voters' opinion on the intricacies of the Brexit deal are unlikely to be placed at the top of negotiators' list of priorities.
1.6.1.2.1. Pro: Such complex matters should not be decided with referenda, as they require expert knowledge about how international trade and relations work.
1.6.1.2.1.1. Pro: Democracy is effective when one wants to know what people want. Once the referendum on what people want is collected, executing the process to fulfill it is the job of experts. For example, it is okay to take a referendum on whether to build a dam on a river, but not how to build the dam or what material to use. That is the job of experts like engineers, for example.
1.6.1.2.1.2. Con: If that is true, then the first referendum should never have been offered in the first place. So a second might actually convey a more accurate picture of voter feeling, now that people are generally more aware of the technicalities and issues with trade relations, that have arisen.
1.6.1.2.1.2.1. Con: It is said that two wrongs do not make a right. Thus if the first should never have been offered, a second cannot better. This is a self defeating argument.
1.6.1.2.1.3. Con: Democracy cannot work if there is no "wisdom in the crowd" since constraining important decisions to a class of elites is equivalent to creating a "noble class" which is the antithesis of democracy.
1.6.1.2.1.3.1. Con: Representative democracy works exactly in that fashion- elected officials collect more information, are more educated in specific fields and can better estimate results and choose the most advantageous path. It is people's responsibility to request accountability and control for abuse.
1.6.1.2.1.4. Pro: Referenda were used by [fascists like Mussolini](https://www.conversion-uplift.co.uk/brexit-referendum-and-democracy/) because they usually returned simplistic and easily manipulated results. It's called plebiscite for a reason.
1.6.1.2.1.4.1. Con: This argument suggests that the original Brexit vote might be illegitimate.
1.6.1.2.1.5. Pro: The subject has too many facets to ever get a comprehensive vote. Currency, trade, farming, fishing, investment, assets, debt, border control, to name a few.
1.6.1.2.1.5.1. Pro: The final proposed deal will be a greatly detailed, lengthy and nuanced document. It will be made up of a balance of wins and concessions traded via negotiation. The general public cannot offer any meaningful contribution with a simple deal or no deal response.
1.6.1.2.2. Pro: If the opinion of the vote counted, the Brexit could have just been implemented completely one day after the vote, but it did not really happen until now, exempt from some pre-negotiations. The long negotiations by politicians are not creating the result of the actual vote.
1.6.1.2.2.1. Con: The time-lapse was a result of the political shake-up in the UK in the immediate aftermath of the vote, as then-Prime Minister David Cameron had to resign. It was therefore not symbolic of a resistance to the public's vote, but rather a logistical delay.
1.6.1.2.2.2. Con: Part of the delay was due to the time it took the EU to [schedule pre-negotiations.](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2017/mar/20/theresa-may-to-trigger-article-50-on-29-march) It was therefore not in the British politicians power to speed up the process any more than they did.
1.6.1.2.3. Con: If the final vote is binding, which is the assumption, then voters would have a definite impact.
1.6.1.2.4. Pro: The financial sector will get whatever they need. Any democratic attempt to leave \(Greece, Ireland\) has been thwarted. Those in power will organise things in their own interests and the end result will be the the status quo.
1.6.1.3. Pro: Two referendums, particularly with different questions, cannot accurately define the trend in public opinion.
1.6.1.4. Con: The key thing is that no proposal, whether to leave the EU without any deal, leave using the Chequers proposals as the basis or remain in the EU, has a natural majority in Parliament. Given the impasse in Parliament, the only really democratic recourse would be to submit these three options in a STV referendum.
1.6.1.4.1. Con: Given how close the original referendum was, not to mention the polarised views of those involved, there is very unlikely to be an obvious majority among the population in a second referendum either, which would lead to an impasse.
1.6.1.4.1.1. Con: The referendum was close regarding remain vs any Brexit. There is no credible reason to assume the 48% would change significantly if the Brexit option is divided into specifics.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1. Con: This assumes "remain" would be an option on the second referendum. Given that Britain has elected to leave, this would not be a logical deduction.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.1. Pro: If Remain was an option, it would leave it open to the common criticism that it is an attempt to undermine and overturn the result of the first Referendum and prove everything said by those saying so, so far right. This would be an argument AGAINST allowing a second referendum.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2. Con: The government is not obliged to implement the advice of the electorate in an advisory referendum.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1. Pro: The initial vote was advisory and non-binding in law, thus, the vote on a final deal makes the most sense.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.1. Con: A remain vote would be considered binding by those that say the leave vote is advisory.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.2. Con: The Government undertook to implement the decision made in the referendum. The referendum was held to seek the views of the electorate. Parliament should respect the procedure followed and the 'advice' that was given.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.2.1. Con: The UK is a [parliamentary democracy](https://www.britannica.com/topic/parliamentary-democracy). Through the referendum the people told Parliament what they thought. It now is up to Parliament to investigate and agree or disagree with them to deliver the best for the U.K. No additional referendum is needed. The people can oppose the decision in the next General Election.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.2.1.1. Con: As Churchill said: "It is not Parliament that should rule; it is the people who should rule through Parliament... The object of the Parliament Act, and the spirit of that Act, were to give effect, not to spasmodic emotions of the electorate, but to the settled, persistent will of the people." It is clear that the 2016 referendum was an expression of the spasmodic emotion, so another vote is needed to determine the settled will.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.2.1.2. Pro: It would be wrong to put any final deal to the UK electorate in a national referendum. Referenda should only be used for profound constitutional matters, like changing the voting system or Scotland seeking to be an independent country. Policy matters are second order issues as they can be changed via a general election, the EU referendum is a profound constitutional issue that has been resolved, any final Brexit deal is not constitutional, it's a policy.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.2.1.2.1. Con: The 2016 referendum opened a real constitutional crisis as parliament is unable to agree and each main party is deeply divided. Not only was the referendum questionable \(Electoral Commission ruling\) but the result could break the United Kingdom. Two of it's nations voted to remain while two voted to leave. If Parliament is unable to deliver a solution in the best interest for the whole country rather than for one party, there would be a constitutional crisis and the people must vote.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.3. Con: Parliament voted on and [approved](http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-41235522) the decision.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.3.1. Con: Parliament has never had a free vote on the outcome. Every aspect subsequently has also been subject to the whip from both sides of the house. This is not democracy in action.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.4. Con: There's no such thing as an advisory referendum - a referendum is a choice put to the public for their direct decision.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.4.1. Con: Without expanding this point further, it is demonstrably wrong. The brexit referendum WAS advisory, and non-binding. Whether it should have been called a referendum is mostly irrelevant.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.5. Con: The final vote would be equally non-advisory, so nothing would change.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.5.1. Con: A great deal would change. A second vote would either confirm the result of the 2016 referendum, and thus bring finality to the decision and shut the "remoaners" up for good, or it would reveal that voters have changed their opinion since 2016 - in which case parliament would have to decide whether pressing ahead with Brexit would truly represent "the will of the people".
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.5.1.1. Con: Clearly, regardless, of the result of 'another referendum' - there will always be those who disagree with it. This will result in a never-ending cycle of referendums.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.5.2. Con: Parliament could legislate that any referendum vote on the final deal would be binding in law. They explicitly did not do this when they established the 2016 referendum.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.6. Pro: People may have voted [differently](https://fullfact.org/europe/was-eu-referendum-advisory/) if they believed that their vote would lead directly to action.
1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.6.1. Con: It was the [widely-signalled](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/515068/why-the-government-believes-that-voting-to-remain-in-the-european-union-is-the-best-decision-for-the-uk.pdf) policy of the Government at the time of the referendum to implement the outcome of the referendum. A belief that the vote would not lead to action would have been unreasonable and should not be assumed without evidence to have been widespread.
1.6.1.4.1.1.2. Con: Though 48% of those that voted voted for Remain, there is no guarantee they would do so if given the option of multiple different forms of Brexit.
1.6.1.4.1.1.2.1. Con: The uncompromising battle between "soft" and "hard" Brexiteers only became fully transparent after the original referendum \(see also [The referendum did not spell out the nature of the future relationship with the EU](https://www.kialo.com/should-voters-in-the-uk-have-a-final-vote-on-the-brexit-deal-10250/10250.0=10250.1+10250.3)\)
1.6.1.4.1.1.2.2. Con: The Leave option has evolved from "out of the political union" but [staying in the economical union](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0xGt3QmRSZY) \(Norway-deal\) with limited negative impact up-to recently "no-deal" with huge negative impact \(upto -10% of GDP\). Such a change in position justifies a second vote.
1.6.1.4.1.1.2.3. Con: EU's negotiating position has been decided \(by the EU\).
1.6.1.4.1.1.2.4. Con: The popular Brexit argument of migration control independence form the EU in regards to refugees proved to be irrelevant, given the consequent [higher immigration from non-EU citizens](http://pdf.reuters.com/pdfnews/pdfnews.asp?i=43059c3bf0e37541&u=2018-02-23T023148Z_GFXEE2N14D0J3_1_RTRGFXG_BASEIMAGE.PNG) and lower British and EU-28 citizen net migration
1.6.1.4.1.1.2.5. Pro: Importantly, the parent claim implies that those that voted leave would be fractured among the different types, but that those who voted remain would be unified. This may not be the case. There are many who might have voted remain to avoid uncertainty and the unknown, or because they didn't want a hard Brexit or were wary of the no alternative proposed at the time. With more options, they may well vote for a different model, so the logic is flawed.
1.6.2. Con: Forcing the government to provide the public with an alternate course of action that they can implement without recourse to the EU would give them the leeway to negotiate more effectively with the EU.
1.6.2.1. Con: The government would have far more leverage in negotiations if they annulled the Article 50 notice. If the EU does not offer a good deal it can refuse to leave and instead focus on drawing attention to and reforming the EU's failings.
1.6.2.1.1. Con: If it annulled Article 50, the EU would have no incentive or reason to negotiate. The EU would offer no deal and instead see it as British capitulation. There would be no reform.
1.6.2.1.1.1. Con: It wouldn't be seen as capitulation at all. The UK would retain its seat at the top table and throw its weight around. All countries in the EU want the EU to reform, Britain could lead the way.
1.6.2.1.1.1.1. Con: History has already shown this view to be inaccurate, as the UK was unable to effect change while within the EU, and unlikely to effect the desired outcome, as no meaningful restructuring or reformation has occurred under any existing member.
1.6.2.1.1.1.1.1. Pro: The UK already had a seat "at the top table" and was unable to effect any meaningful change.
1.6.2.1.1.1.1.2. Pro: The UK has "thrown its weight" around in the past, often without any meaningful effect, other than to annoy and aggravate its European partners. It is unlikely continuing to do so in future would provide any tangible or productive benefit, especially with the loss of face a climb-down would entail.
1.6.2.1.1.1.1.3. Pro: While all countries seem to want reform, they all want different reform. A dozen things pulling in different directions will rarely effect the changes that all want.
1.6.2.2. Con: A second referendum on the final agreement for Brexit would weaken the UK government's negotiating position now. EU side would be motivated to give UK a poor deal knowing that this would likely be rejected by a vote, and UK would be forced to stay a member for longer or leave with no deal.
1.6.2.2.1. Con: UK will get a poor deal from the EU anyways.
1.6.2.2.2. Pro: The Tories won the last election with \>40% of the vote on a 'no deal is better than a bad deal' manifesto, suggesting it is not at all certain that a bad deal offered by the EU would be accepted.  The EU is aware of this, and therefore could well be motivated by the prospect of a popular vote on whether to accept the offer or reject it and leave without a deal than they would otherwise.
1.6.2.3. Pro: The public will also have more clarity on what will happen without an EU deal.
1.6.3. Pro: A 'No' vote on a Brexit deal would lead to a standstill in which the agreement would have to be continuously renegotiated.
1.6.3.1. Pro: If the UK didn't like the deal the EU offered and voted to reject it, the EU does not have to offer them a better one. Likewise, if an impasse is reached and no deal made, the UK cannot vote to reject a no deal and impose one on the EU.
1.6.3.1.1. Pro: It is only possible to vote down \(refuse\) a deal, as far down as to a no deal. It is not possible to get a better deal by voting, as a vote has no power or sway over the EU, who are under no obligation to listen to the British public, and in fact would just weaken Britain's position further.
1.6.3.1.2. Pro: It is unclear if the UK can unilaterally revoke Article 50. As such, the EU could refuse to consider allowing them to stay if they changed their mind, which would make a vote on the final deal rather moot, as all it could achieve is causing a no deal and sending Britain crashing out of the EU. In the case of a No Deal in the above circumstances, such a vote would be moot and pointless anyway.
1.6.4. Pro: By the time a second referendum could realistically be held, much of the real-world impact would already have happened.
1.6.5. Con: A second referendum with the three options would automatically result in a remain win as the leave; deal/no deal options would split the leave vote. The first question was very clear and a small majority voted in favour of leaving. Both sides of the debate stated that voting to leave would be a complete break.
1.6.5.1. Con: Many leading [Leave campaigners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0xGt3QmRSZY) including Farage, Boris, Hannan, Fox and Davies stated that the UK would most likely remain in the single market.
1.7. Con: To give the public a vote and overrule it would be a failure of democracy.
1.7.1. Con: A new referendum can perfectly end up seeing "leave with no deal" win, for example. Now that the consequences of leaving are really known, people can decide a clear break from the EU is what they want and, this time, give a clear mandate to the government. A new referendum is the most democratic option.
1.7.2. Pro: Voters in the UK already had the final vote. The only vote that should happen for the UK public, is on the terms of the brexit deal. Accept the terms laid out by the EU, or Accept a "hard brexit" with a WTO deal. The public has already had its vote on if brexit will happen, and there should be no remain option at this point.
1.7.3. Con: The real [EU referendum results](https://www.indy100.com/article/brexit-leave-remain-52-48-per-cent-voter-turnout-electoral-register-charts-7399226) were as following. Of the total eligible vote: Leave: 36.7% Remain: 35.3% Undecided/didn't vote: 28%. This shows there is no clear mandate for Brexit, as there was no clear majority in support of or in opposition to Brexit.
1.7.3.1. Con: They had a chance to vote in the first referendum and chose not to. There is no evidence they would exercise the right to do so in a second referendum.
1.7.3.1.1. Con: That's precisely what democracy is about. Maybe in a new referendum they will not vote and maybe they will. Maybe they didn't vote in 2016 because they didn't know and now they know.
1.7.3.1.1.1. Con: This is a fallacious argument: It is based on speculation, not facts, with no concrete or even circumstantial evidence that the result would be any different. If the same people do not vote, and the country still ends up with a close vote with no real majority or clear mandate, by this argument it would then lead to an endless series of votes, until voter fatigue sets in.
1.7.3.1.1.1.1. Pro: Much as it did in Ireland during the [EU Constitution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irish_European_Constitution_referendum) and Treaty of Lisbon referendum, and the [Treaty of Nice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treaty_of_Nice) referendum, when the result was [not what](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twenty-eighth_Amendment_of_the_Constitution_Bill_2008) the politicians and [establishment wanted](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twenty-eighth_Amendment_of_the_Constitution_of_Ireland#Result). They re-ran the vote until they got the result they wanted. It has been suggested that some of the voter swing was caused by voter fatigue and wanting to just end the process of votes on the same thing. In essence, people felt they were told how to vote.
1.7.3.1.1.1.2. Con: A new vote is of course speculation until it happens. The vote being proposed is not a vote of leaving or staying, it's a vote on the deal. People must be allowed to say if they agree or not and, if not, they should be allowed to have the option to remain.
1.7.3.1.1.2. Con: A new referendum could still lead to a situation where different constituent parts vote differently from each other. This happens frequently in elections. It is part of democracy too. To imply otherwise is disingenuous.
1.7.4. Pro: A second referendum is a thinly-veiled attempt to thwart "the will of the people" as expressed in the first referendum.
1.7.4.1. Pro: The victory of the Leave side on the terms set out in the referendum legislation is not in doubt; there are no suspicions about vote rigging or any other activity which would render the result illegitimate.
1.7.4.1.1. Con: After being forced by [legal action](https://www.electoralcommission.org.uk/i-am-a/journalist/electoral-commission-media-centre/news-releases-donations/vote-leave-fined-and-referred-to-the-police-for-breaking-electoral-law) to investigate properly, the Electoral Commission fined the leave campaign for multiple breaches of the rules and referred them to the police for criminal charges. This shows not only that the leave campaign cheated, the fact that they only investigated after they were forced to shows the Electoral Commission are not fit for purpose and calls into question their analysis of any vote rigging.
1.7.4.2. Con: Logically a second referendum would have the same outcome as the previous referendum if there was no issue with the first - and of course it is not undemocratic as giving say to people - even multiple times is still equally as fair, it is just simply the same as withdrawing consent in any situation.
1.7.4.3. Con: There are around 65 million people resident and affected by the vote to Leave. Only [17+ million](http://www.bbc.com/news/politics/eu_referendum/results) actually voted to Leave. That is not "the will of the people".
1.7.4.3.1. Con: A majority of those who voted is the normal standard for democratic exercises.  Whilst it is wise and possible to have minimum turnout or supermajority clauses for major constitutional changes, our MPs did not have the foresight to build this into the rules
1.7.4.3.2. Pro: Loyalty to the poor design \(no supermajority, exclusion of EU residents, failure to administer overseas british citizens competently\) is less important than the basic injustice that a vote inclusive of all those affected would not have opted to leave.
1.7.4.4. Pro: A second referendum is a tool for "sore losers", who will keep asking for a re-vote until the public "gets the vote right".
1.7.4.4.1. Con: The "sore loser" argument cuts both ways. [Nigel Farage](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-eu-referendum-36306681) said that there would be "unstoppable demand" for a second referendum if "remain" had won.
1.7.4.4.2. Con: By this logic the UK should not have had the 2016 referendum because it was the [second referendum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom_European_Communities_membership_referendum,_1975) on the issue; the first was in 1975.
1.7.4.4.2.1. Pro: Either repeated referenda are invalid \(so the first 'yes' vote to membership prevails\) or it is possible to revisit a vote as the circumstanced develop \(in which case no argument for invalidating either the second vote in 2015 or the future peoples vote on the final deal\)
1.7.4.4.2.2. Con: If something is billed as "once in a lifetime", one would expect it to be just that, once in a lifetime, or perhaps, more generously, once every 20-30 years. Not once every 4-5 years.
1.7.4.4.3. Con: The initial referendum happened because MPs legislated for it; if MPs believe there is an argument for having a referendum on the final deal, it is constitutionally valid for them to legislate for that in our system of representative democracy.
1.7.4.4.3.1. Con: -> See 1.6.
1.7.4.5. Con: The electorate change their minds depending on circumstances and events, this should be accepted as democratic in the same way governments change.
1.7.4.5.1. Pro: Otherwise by this logic people should have elected one government and never held any subsequent elections as to do so would over-ride the 'will of the people'.
1.7.4.5.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.7.4.4.2.
1.7.4.6. Con: -> See 1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.6.
1.7.4.7. Pro: Remain was disproportionately favoured by the least sophisticated members of society with the [least experience, wisdom and good judgement](https://yougov.co.uk/news/2016/06/27/how-britain-voted), while Leave was favoured by the[most sophisticated, wise and experienced](https://yougov.co.uk/news/2016/06/27/how-britain-voted/) in society as measured by age. By refusing to respect the result of the vote, a second referendum would pander to the least sophisticated members of society at the expense of the wisest, as measured by age.
1.7.4.7.1. Con: The links provided as "evidence" of this claim do not make any statement regarding naivety or sophistication, or capacity to understand the subtleties of the Brexit arguments.
1.7.4.7.2. Pro: Older people are [superior at choice-dependent decision making tasks](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3212636/#!po=60.9375) that better model complex life decisions like Brexit, as they perform better in generating specific hypotheses about how rewards in the environment are structured. This supports the old adage: with age comes wisdom.
1.7.4.7.2.1. Con: The study linked describes two experiments, one for choice-independent decision making and one for choice-dependent decision making. Only in the latter did the older group perform better. It is debatable which category the referendum falls into, as it is \(or should be\) about more than just personal benefit analysis.
1.7.4.7.2.2. Con: The experiment that serves as the basis for this claim had a sample size of just 103 participants, and is not therefore sufficiently rigorous as to be convincingly representative of the wider population either of Austin, Texas, the United States, the western world or humanity in general. The [margin of error](https://www.surveysystem.com/sscalc.htm) even just based on the population of Austin is more than twice that of the variation in results between young and old.
1.7.4.7.2.3. Pro: Although there is clearly more work to be done, the findings of this paper cannot be so easily dismissed. For example, another [recent paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/29239653/#fft) extends these findings to show that illogical causal reasoning decreases in older adults compared to young adults.
1.7.4.7.2.3.1. Con: The claims in the paper cited are difficult for participants in this discussion to verify or determine the relevancy of as the paper is behind a paywall, and not publicly accessible until 14/12/2018.
1.7.4.7.3. Con: Older voters judgement may be clouded by misplaced anti-German and nationalistic sentiments left over from World War 2, and their lack of travel to the rest of the continent, meaning that they do not appreciate the realities of the new Europe as well as younger, more mobile generations.
1.7.4.7.4. Con: The links provided as evidence show that those who voted to Remain are, demographically speaking, more highly educated than those who voted to Leave. Age may be one factor affecting intellectual capacity, but educational achievement is most certainly another, and arguably a more definitive one. It is possible to achieve old age without engaging your brain to any significant level, but rather more difficult to complete degree-level education without doing so.
1.7.4.7.4.1. Con: Unfortunately the parent claim is based on a fallacy. In recent years, the association between university level educational attainment and intelligence has been greatly eroded by the explosion in the number of people going to university, and the creation of '[mickey mouse'](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mickey_Mouse_degrees) degrees. A degree in[celebrity journalism](https://www.theguardian.com/education/2010/feb/10/stop-funding-mickey-mouse-degrees) does not make your opinion on brexit more valuable than someone who has lived through the evolution of the EU from when the UK joined to present day.
1.7.4.7.4.1.1. Con: Living through a situation does not automatically grant one an in-depth understanding of it. Just as a "mickey mouse degree" could be considered of no benefit in developing a full understanding of the EU, a life spent without time devoted to studying the effect of our membership of the EU would be equally as irrelevant.
1.7.4.7.5. Pro: Older people by their very nature will have more experience voting and taking part in the democratic process, in elections \(they've lived through more of them\) and in and indeed under different governments and styles. They have lived through more of the decisions and seen first hand their consequences. This would give them more first hand and practical experience.
1.7.4.7.5.1. Con: No person, young or old, has been through the process of leaving the EU, which would be the most relevant form of experience. Having more experience of other democratic processes will not necessarily be relevant.
1.7.4.7.5.2. Con: If age and experience in elections were a factor in determining how valuable someone's vote is, general elections would be weighted based on the number of elections a citizen has participated in.
1.7.4.7.6. Pro: Social media may be [regressing children to the mentality of three-year-olds](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2018/08/05/social-media-regressing-children-mentality-three-year-olds-says/). As younger people are generally larger users of social media, their mentality may also have regressed and so their opinions carry even less weight compared to older people.
1.7.4.7.7. Con: Relevant experience is a factor affecting the ability to understand the subtleties of the Brexit arguments, but age is not. Experience increases with age, but it is not a linear relationship and if that experience is not relevant to understanding Brexit then it is of little importance. An older person does not, therefore, necessarily have more relevant experience in this matter than a younger person.
1.7.4.7.8. Con: Wisdom is [defined](https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/wisdom) as the quality of having experience, knowledge and good judgement. While experience almost without exception increases with age, a linear relationship does not exist between experience and knowledge, or experience and good judgement. It is quite possible to reach old age with a great deal of experience but little knowledge and a distinct lack of good judgement. As a result, being older is not the same as being wiser.
1.7.4.7.9. Pro: Remain was [disproportionately favoured](https://yougov.co.uk/news/2016/06/27/how-britain-voted/) by the least sophisticated members of society with the least experience, wisdom and good judgement, while Leave was favoured by themost sophisticated, wise and experienced in society as measured by age.
1.7.5. Con: One single referendum cannot accurately define the trend in public's opinion.
1.7.5.1. Pro: If voting patterns remained unchanged, simple demographic drift \(voters dying and coming of age\) would have reversed the outcome by now. Any democratic mandate from the original referendum has expired.
1.7.5.2. Con: One single referendum brought us into the EU.
1.7.5.3. Con: -> See 1.6.1.3.
1.7.5.4. Con: The goal of a referendum is not to reflect the changing mood of public opinion over an undertermined timelapse, but to take a collective decision at a given moment in history.
1.7.5.5. Con: A referendum used too often would become even more influenced by temporary trends in the public opinion \("we can vote for this even if we don't want it, they will ask us again anyway"\).
1.7.6. Con: It is not obvious that the majority of the population really wants Brexit to happen.
1.7.6.1. Pro: The Leave Campaign won with a tiny margin of [just 3.8%](http://www.bbc.com/news/politics/eu_referendum/results). This is not a substantial enough win to declare authoritatively that the will of the people is being exercised here.
1.7.6.1.1. Con: That is not how democracy works, those who bothered to vote were more in favor of leaving, so Britain should leave.
1.7.6.1.1.1. Con: Democracy is not uniform and different majority rules are applied for different votes. The significance of the referendum justifies a higher majority requirement. Despite what one's opinion might be, the speculation and immediate economic turbulence are evidence of that.
1.7.6.1.2. Pro: There should be a minimum majority for such a significant vote.
1.7.6.1.2.1. Pro: A precedent of Parliament imposing minimum majorities for significant referendum votes was set when Scotland voted on [devolution in 1979](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scottish_devolution_referendum,_1979), the Westminster parties banded together to impose a minimum requirement that 40% of the electorate must vote in favour of leaving.
1.7.6.1.2.2. Con: One could make the same mandate for any Democratic vote then, in which case, the UK \(and almost every other western democracy\) would come to a screeching halt, as there has almost never been votes with such clear majorities, with only three examples coming to mind.
1.7.6.1.2.2.1. Con: One example for such a "minimum majority" clause is the German "5%-clause". It is serving the country well and does its job: establish stable majorities. Ref. \(unfortunately without English version\): [de.wikipedia.org](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/F%C3%BCnf-Prozent-H%C3%BCrde_in_Deutschland)
1.7.6.1.2.2.2. Con: Another example of working "minimum majority" rules are quorum rules, for example the Bavarian rules for a Volksentscheid on changes to the Bavarian constitution require at least 25% "yes" votes of the entire electorate. It's the same basic principle as quoted [elseswhere on this kialo board](https://www.kialo.com/should-voters-in-the-uk-have-a-final-vote-on-the-brexit-deal-10250/10250.0=10250.1-10250.33-10250.16+10250.17+10250.592+10250.355)
1.7.6.1.2.2.3. Con: A third minimum-majority rule is frequent at German universities: quoting from memory, as a rule, professors, staff and students get two seats each at a faculty's senate \(or however this institution is called in proper English, and don't pin me down on the details, they don't matter here anyhow\). However, the second seat is void if less than 50% of the electorate cast a vote.
1.7.6.1.2.3. Con: But there was no minimum majority required. The original referendum is valid, now the question is how to go forward.[The result of a vote is the official proxy for the preference of the population.](https://www.kialo.com/should-voters-in-the-uk-have-a-final-vote-on-the-brexit-deal-10250/10250.0=10250.1-10250.33-10250.16-10250.607)
1.7.6.1.2.3.1. Con: What it was doesn't imply what it should be. The parent argument used "should", validated by the significance of the outcome. The preference of the population is not clearly stated in a rounded-up 50-50 vote.
1.7.6.1.3. Con: UK law decrees that the majority of those voting in the referendum must be in favour of the ratification of the treaty, in order for it to be admissible. It does not, however, specify how big the majority needs to be.
1.7.6.1.3.1. Pro: The [European Union Act of 2011](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2011/12/pdfs/ukpga_20110012_en.pdf) - Part1, Section2, SubSection2, C -  states that any treaty replacing/amending the TFEU/TEU cannot be ratified unless "the majority of those voting in the referendum are in favour of the ratification of the treaty."
1.7.6.1.3.1.1. Pro: As the replacement treaty hadn't been written before EURef16 the referendum referenced in the text could not have been the pre-legislative advisory non-binding poll of 2016.
1.7.6.1.3.1.2. Con: It is not the case that the act requires a referendum; according to part 1, section 2, subsection 1, c either the referendum case or the exemption case must be met. Since any replacing treaty would most likely not meet any of the requirements for a referendum set out in part 1, section 4 \(which all relate to increased EU power over the UK\) the exemption clause could be invoked and no referendum would be required.
1.7.6.1.3.1.3. Con: Any new Brexit deal would only be deemed by the Act to attract a referendum if it conferred greater power to the EU than the existing EU membership in one of the ways listed in Section 4. It's extremely unlikely such a deal will be put before Parliament.
1.7.6.1.3.1.4. Con: No. It isn't. Section 4, EU Act 2011 provides exceptions. The 'referendum lock' only applies to TREATIES which EXTEND the competence / powers of EU in respect of the UK.
1.7.6.1.3.2. Pro: For Brexit to be viewed positively by history, it must be seen to be totally lawful or future generations will judge this era to be corrupt as well as misguided.
1.7.6.2. Pro: Some people voted to Leave in the Brexit vote as a [protest vote](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2017/nov/25/protest-vote-regret-voting-leave-brexit) agains the Conservative government, not believing that the results would really fall with the Leave campaign overall.
1.7.6.3. Con: The result of a vote is the official proxy for the preferences of the population.
1.7.6.3.1. Con: The preferences of the population are subject to change. Therefore a repetition of the vote would either help to manifest the decision made before or show whether the conditions now known accompanying Brexit make people rethink their initial vote.
1.7.7. Con: In a democracy, no vote is final. That's more or less the definition of a democracy.
1.7.7.1. Pro: It's a strange sort of democracy in which voting is seen as anti-democratic.
1.7.8. Con: Only if democracy is defined such that bad or foolish advice must always be enacted by government, no matter what harm will result for the nation. This might seem be a ’success of democracy’ but would actually be ’a failure of wise government’.
1.7.8.1. Con: The definition of a "wise government" would change with each persons perspective.
1.7.9. Con: The referendum itself was a failure in democracy, because it resulted purely from the PM's inability to reconcile destructive divisions in his own party which threatened his role as leader. It was an attempt to place responsibility on the electorate for what should rightly be a decision of a united Government.
1.7.9.1. Con: An equal argument could be made that it was a failure of the EU in their inflexibility, tone deafness and insensitivity to the concerns and problems of the population of the UK. They refused to make any significant concessions to David Cameron, which forced the issue.
1.7.9.2. Con: It could be argued that as the outcome of the EU referendum was that a majority voted for the change in political direction that it offered; the referendum was justifiably the correct thing to offer to the public.
1.7.10. Con: The proposal is not to overrule the vote, but rather to offer a second chance for citizens to share their views.
1.7.10.1. Con: The effect would be to overrule the first vote. Votes do not give opportunity to share views in any meaningful way due to lack of options, and a second vote is likely to be void of nuance, instead being binary in nature, just like the first vote.
1.7.10.2. Pro: Stating that a second vote would overule the first vote is admitting that the majority are now in favour of remaining. If that is the belief, then holding another referendum is the most democratic thing to do. A democracy enables the electorate to change their minds.
1.7.10.2.1. Con: It is implicit that the term 'overrule' is used to mean 'make irrelevant', irrespective of the actual outcome. Holding a second referendum is either the most democratic thing to do, or it isn't - what anyone believes the outcome will be is irrelevant.
1.7.11. Pro: Democratic integrity is at stake if the vote to leave is overridden by a new referendum without article 50 taking effect. A vote to leave means that even if terms cannot be agreed upon for a 'special' arrangement, even in those circumstances, the UK should still leave, rather than remain. Especially when there is an option of trade under WTO rules.
1.7.11.1. Con: The pool of potential ways of "leaving" was very wide at the time of the referendum. The vote to leave is unlikely to have included a silent "no matter the circumstances" in majority of leave voters minds. Now that additional information is known, a secondary vote to confirm that a majority still wants to leave strengthens the mandate to leave, it doesn't weaken it.
1.7.11.2. Con: There is no integrity in British democracy to put at stake.
1.7.12. Pro: The UK decided that Brexit was the best thing to do, knowing that there was the possibility of serious upheaval in the short term. To hold another referendum during the short term upheaval period would muddy the waters and thereby potentially jeopardize the country's future success.
1.7.12.1. Con: -> See 1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.
1.7.12.2. Con: There were many claims by the Leave campaign before the referendum, and Leave proponents in the Government shortly afterwards, claiming that Brexit would be quick and easy [\[1\]](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/ng-interactive/2018/mar/28/11-brexit-promises-leavers-quietly-dropped) [\[2\]](https://www.buzzfeed.com/patricksmith/nobody-said-it-was-easy?utm_term=.fkaVwA6GO#.bbPn7Xjov) [\[3\]](https://www.newstatesman.com/politics/brexit/2018/07/all-times-david-davis-said-brexit-was-simple). Claims by a wide variety of experts that there would be significant short- and long-term negative impact were roundly dismissed by the Leave campaign as "Project Fear".
1.7.13. Con: There may not be sufficient time to get a post-legislative referendum in place before the proposed exit in March 2019.
1.7.13.1. Pro: None of the proposed solutions, especially concerning the Northern Ireland border, were accepted by the EU. So the UK would be asked for views on proposals that would not be accepted anyway.
1.8. Pro: A decision as momentous as this should not be left to Parliament.
1.8.1. Pro: A history-changing decision like this should been fully informed and government studies completed before the vote, not a year after.
1.8.2. Pro: In fact the sitting minority government is as far as possible avoiding including even Parliament. The decision is too important to be left to ministers.
1.8.3. Con: The UK is a parliamentary democracy, not a direct one. The people elect representatives to carry on the business of government on their behalf.
1.8.4. Con: The role of Parliament is to work out the "detail" of the will of the people as expressed in the referendum, and the public should not have to worry about the minutiae of "how" the UK leaves, so long as it "leaves."
1.8.4.1. Con: The role of parliament is to serve in the interests of the majority, it is not to take advantage of and blindly implement bad policy based on protesting votes or false data fed to the electorate.
1.8.4.2. Con: It is precisely the detail which is crucial to the futures of all citizens. People did not vote to give the \(minority\) government of the day a blank cheque. The details should have been explored and tested rigorously before ever calling a referendum.
1.8.5. Pro: Having a vote will enable the people to decide whats they think best for them, not for the squabbling members of Parliament. If they believe they speak for the British people, then they should actually ask the British people.
1.8.5.1. Con: This argument doesn't make sense, since it advocates for a vote that has already happened \(Brexit won\), to decide whether something that hasn't happened yet \(Brexit\) should actually happen or not.
1.8.5.1.1. Con: The purpose of democracy is to provide change but it is not to create a dictatorship. The referendum result has been called into question, a petition of over 4 million voters called for it to be re-run as the margin was too slight and repeated calls for a fair public vote have been denied by decree. This is not a democratic decision.
1.8.5.1.1.1. Con: The purpose of democracy is not to provide change, but rather to represent the will of the people and hold leaders accountable.
1.8.6. Con: This is exactly why the people voted and why their first vote should be considered final. Otherwise, it would give the impression that the UK Parliament asks people to vote again and again until they vote right.
1.8.7. Con: Members of Parliament have rather the ability to read and understand the entire agreement than the average voter.
1.8.8. Con: The decision to sign the [Maastricht Treaty](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maastricht_Treaty) was left to Parliament and this was as momentous as the present debate.
1.8.8.1. Con: The Maastricht Treaty only modified the UK's economic relationship with EC member states established under existing EC treaties. The Brexit deal must redefine the economic relationship with EU member states from scratch, and so is substantially more momentous.
1.8.9. Con: -> See 1.6.1.2.1.
1.8.10. Pro: People are perfectly allowed to vote as irresponsibly as they wish, and the government is obliged to accept the collective opinions of the electors.
1.8.10.1. Pro: The government is obliged to serve the needs of the majority of people but as everyone does not vote, the system depends on a majority of those who do, and in order to support this claim, every person affected must be given the vote. Otherwise that vote is prejudicial and not democratic. If votes are denied to some citizens affected by decisions, then the vote should be declared invalid and not acted upon.
1.8.10.1.1. Con: -> See 1.3.1.4.
1.8.10.2. Con: Governments are obligated to act in the best interest of their country, not necessarily the majority.
1.8.10.2.1. Con: This defeats the very notion and concept of democracy and would ensure a politicians career is at best, brief.
1.8.10.2.2. Con: Democratic governments should act in the interests of the majority. This is a well established principle. For example, in Germany, the government must act in the best interest of the people and must adhere to the constitution. While this may not be explicit, this suggests that the government should not be able to autonomously make decisions that do not benefit the majority of the people.
1.8.10.2.2.1. Pro: Given that the government necessarily has a portfolio of information nobody else has access to \(partly because it's secret for good reasons, partly because it's impractical for various reasons, and probably also a part, hopefully small, that is secret for bad reasons\), it is not practical to follow the majority as a general rule. The government is a democratically elected body of people that citizens trust to act in their best interest.
1.8.10.3. Con: Intelligence and wisdom are not qualifications for receiving the voting privilege, agreed. That being said however, a nation run by a majority of irresponsible voters would not be a nation worth living in, for any responsible and sensible person. So the suggestion that the government must comply with the wishes of irresponsible voters is ludicrous.
1.8.10.4. Con: Citizens of any democracy have the absolute right to vote. They have a corresponding responsibility to vote responsibly. Rights, which involve taking or benefiting from society, correspond with responsibilities, which involve giving something back or contributing.
1.8.10.5. Con: -> See 1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.
1.9. Pro: Voters should have the opportunity to change their minds.
1.9.1. Pro: -> See 1.7.4.2.
1.9.2. Pro: With a vote that was so close it's within reason.
1.9.3. Pro: It's totally normal, prudent and sensible that whenever a decision with irrevocable consequences has to be taken, those taking it are asked to \(re\)confirm their decision.
1.9.3.1. Pro: That's why there are mandatory "cooling off" periods attached to significant contracts, insurance policies, etc.
1.9.3.2. Pro: That's why any good craftsman will double-check his measurements before making a cut.
1.9.4. Pro: It's best to double check, as on leaving the UK loses valuable benefits that it can never get back - including opt-outs and rebate.
1.9.4.1. Pro: Brexit should be reconsidered because it will diminish people's effort to stand in a peaceful and prosperous continent without borders and conflicts. EU is a unique experiment of people from different cultures sharing human values and human rights. Brexit is a bad thing, not for the money or for the power but over the global common sense and the global common human consciousness.
1.9.4.1.1. Con: Napoleon and Hitler had the exact same goal, but through military, rather than political and economic means. The parent essentially makes the argument that they should not have been opposed.
1.9.4.1.1.1. Con: Napoleon and Hitler are in no way similar to the EU which was formed and functions with the consent of involved parties as opposed to militarily wanting to take over a continent.
1.9.4.1.2. Con: Rights and values do not need EU to exist. And in a way "global common sense and the global common human consciousness", can be viewed as downside, views and opinions of smaller groups get swallowed up and erased, homogeneous thinking is a massive con to this.
1.9.4.2. Con: The loss of these benefits was already established in the first Referendum under the assumption we'd be leaving. It is disingenuous to suggest that those voting leave did not know or understand this.
1.9.4.3. Pro: The same way 2-step authentication works, people should be asked twice to make sure no massive social engineering or propaganda took place.
1.9.4.3.1. Con: This would only work if there hadn't been 2 years of people who voted to leave being accused of being racists and xenophobes. A second vote is only going to stir up even more venom and cause further divide. Nothing will be resolved regardless of who wins.
1.9.5. Pro: Unlike a normal vote where people have the opportunity to change our mind every few years, people are permanently stuck with a decision that was built on untruths.
1.9.5.1. Pro: People should have the right to a final vote before the deal is made permanent once and for all, now that they actually know what leaving really means.
1.9.6. Pro: Those who regret their initial votes should have the opportunity to repair the damage. There is nothing irresponsible about that.
1.9.6.1. Con: This argument presupposses that people regret their initial vote and insinuates those are the people who voted to leave.
1.9.6.2. Con: Then there is no point in having a referendum on any matter, when the will of the people becomes the whim of the people that changes back and forth when the going gets tough.
1.9.7. Con: In a democracy people can change their minds; but it must be within a managed/established time frame. Otherwise, there'd be a general election every six months and there'd be chaos. That's not democracy.
1.9.7.1. Con: Other countries manage to successfully have referenda more frequently than the UK. Ireland has held [17 referenda since 2000](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amendments_to_the_Constitution_of_Ireland#List_of_amendments_and_referendums).
1.9.7.2. Con: The Brexit deal is not a periodic event, unlike a General Election. There is no better time to have a vote than when the final deal is presented.
1.9.7.3. Pro: So they should, but once a majority vote is reached then in a democratic system it is fair to proceed based on that result without revisiting and re-voting every few months. No one would dream of re-voting on the same-sex marriage legislation based on the statement "voters should have the opportunity to change their minds".
1.9.7.3.1. Con: In taking the course that it has taken, the government, with the support of parliament has presumed the electorate to be gullible and ignorant. The electorate knew the referendum was advisory and treated it as such: the only thing that can be derived with certainty from the result is that parliament is seriously out of touch. Another vote ignores that information & proves parliament as not fit for purpose, but without acknowledging either fact.
1.9.7.3.2. Con: -> See 1.7.6.1.1.1.
1.10. Pro: Some of the claims made during the referendum campaign were untrue.
1.10.1. Pro: Conservative minister Penny Mordaunt [incorrectly claimed](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/penny-mordaunt-andrew-marr-uk-veto-tory-minister-accused-of-flat-out-lying-over-turkey-joining-the-a7041956.html) that Turkey could join the EU without the UK's approval.
1.10.2. Con: It is sure to be true that some of the claims before this new 'vote' will also be untrue, and similarly for any future vote. The implication of this statement is that we should continue having votes forever. That's not a good idea.
1.10.3. Pro: The claim that the UK sends £350 million a week to the EU has been [widely discredited](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2017/sep/18/boris-johnson-350-million-claim-bogus-foreign-secretary).
1.10.3.1. Pro: The arithmetic assesses only the direct balance of payments to the UK government, and not the indirect monetary flows resulting from increased trade with fellow EU countries. This is much more significant.
1.10.3.2. Con: The net figure of £160m per week, gross figure of [£260m per week](https://fullfact.org/europe/our-eu-membership-fee-55-million/) and pre-rebate figure of £300m+ per week are all sufficiently large to make the same point as was made with the £350m figure. There is no evidence that using the smallest of these figures would have been less persuasive as all are extremely large.
1.10.4. Con: The outcome was known and only a single possible one, false claims don't change the goal. They might change the motivation, but the result is singular.
1.10.5. Con: The balance of "untruths" made during the referendum campaign was roughly even on both sides.
1.10.5.1. Con: The Remain option was well defined - people knew fairly well what this result would mean. Leave was defined differently by campaigners and voters leaving it far more open to misrepresentations.
1.10.5.2. Con: The director for Vote Leave suggests that the erroneous £350m claim may have been a [deciding factor](https://www.indy100.com/article/voted-brexit-nhs-promise-campaign-director-350million-battle-bus-voting-7568381) in their win.
1.10.5.2.1. Con: This assumes that people voted leave solely or primarily based on that reason. There is little evidence to support this, aside the claims of those who want to remain, which are hardly an unbiased source.
1.10.5.2.2. Con: According to the prime minister, the [promise of £350m extra per week to the NHS](https://www.spectator.co.uk/2018/05/350-million-for-the-nhs-how-the-brexit-bus-pledge-is-coming-true/) will be kept, and therefore the Leave campaign appears to have been correct after all.
1.10.5.2.2.1. Con: The money pledged is not, however, with money saved by leaving the EU, which was the crux of the argument made by the Leave Campaign.
1.10.5.2.2.2. Con: Outcome no longer possible. [Theresa May refused](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2016/sep/04/theresa-may-refuses-to-guarantee-brexit-pledges-on-immigration-and-nhs) to pledge for the lower amount of £100m even.
1.10.5.3. Pro: The idea that the "other side" were duped but "your side" wasn't is the product of confirmation bias.  There is no reason to believe there was more truth on one side than the other.
1.10.5.4. Con: Irrelevant, they were still lies and that perverted the result.
1.10.5.4.1. Con: This is essentially saying that the result should automatically be rendered null and void due to cheating. However, given that both sides mislead, and would likely continue to do so \(at least in the eyes of the other party\), this would lead us to a situation in which neither side could win. This is hardly a constructive way forward.
1.10.5.4.1.1. Pro: There isn't a call for emergency general elections after falsehoods are made during campaigns, so there is no reason or precedent for this to justify calling for a second referendum.
1.10.5.4.1.1.1. Con: That is no reason to excuse lies such as £350,000,000 a week for the NHS or the advertising campaigns which suggested Leaving would actually improve the NHS and save huge sums of money claimed to be hemorrhaging to the EU, falsely claiming no returned benefits to the UK from the EU.
1.10.5.4.1.1.1.1. Con: That the money has not materialised for the NHS does not make the claim categorically untrue or a lie. Britain does pay between [13 billion and 18.2 billion](https://fullfact.org/europe/our-eu-membership-fee-55-million/) GBP into the European budget each year and is and [always has been a net contributor](http://www.thisismoney.co.uk/money/news/article-2052433/Chart-How-does-Britain-pay-EU-does-back.html). And it is roughly 350-360 million a week, if one does not include the rebate \(the rebate drops it to between 260-275 million a week\).
1.10.5.4.1.1.1.2. Pro: One of the main reasons cited by the Leave Campaign - that of £350 million per day being saved which could be used to fund the NHS - is unlikely to have actually been spent on the NHS at all. It is much more likely that it will be spent on giving tax breaks to [corporations](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2017/aug/24/austerity-lie-deep-cuts-economy-portugal-socialist).
1.10.5.4.1.1.2. Con: [The Fixed-term Parliaments Act](https://researchbriefings.parliament.uk/ResearchBriefing/Summary/SN06111) 2011 guarantees the limited duration of the impact of any general election choices made in response to false claims. The lack of any further vote scheduled ahead of the Article 50 expiry means that scheduling a new vote is the only way to provide equivalent recourse for the events of the 2016 referendum.
1.10.5.4.1.1.3. Con: The process for calling an early general election is under the political control of the victors of the previous election and so is a poor yardstick for what is the right response when conduct in the previous campaign was problematic.
1.10.5.4.1.1.4. Con: There is no basis of comparison between a "falsehood" and the scope of a Brexit. Neither the people nor the financial markets expected it. The panic was observed upon the outcome and definitely constitutes later realized consequences of the vote.
1.10.6. Pro: Now that the facts are back to being accurate and known, families \(of all generations\) could think again about the future \(of their country\) they want to create, have, and pass on to their children/ grandchildren, etc.
1.10.7. Pro: -> See 1.5.8.
1.10.8. Pro: The Leave campaigns broke several laws in order to swing the vote.
1.10.8.1. Pro: There is currently [planned legal action](http://BrexitJusticeProsecution) against individuals who made claims in the first referendum.
1.10.8.2. Pro: Leave EU was fined for breaches of [electoral law](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-44080096).
1.10.8.3. Pro: A whistleblower alleged that the Leave campaign [manipulated](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2018/mar/24/brexit-whistleblower-cambridge-analytica-beleave-vote-leave-shahmir-sanni) the electoral spending rules.
1.10.8.4. Con: While it is undisputed that the leave campaign broke several rules, there is no clear, undisputed evidence that this influenced the result of the referendum.
1.10.8.4.1. Con: There is undisputed evidence that the Leave campaign believed it influenced the result of the referendum.  If they didn't believe it would affect the result, they would hardly have risked breaking rules to do so.
1.10.8.4.1.1. Pro: If a lawbreaker thought they gained from breaking the rules, surely people should err on the side of assuming they were correct.
1.10.8.4.1.1.1. Con: Those that have come out to suggest that they broke the law and that it influenced the vote have questionable motives and motivations at best. This makes what they say somewhat difficult to believe at best.
1.10.8.5. Con: It should be pointed out that the remain campaign also had a [government produced](http://speri.dept.shef.ac.uk/2018/01/26/how-the-governments-pro-remain-leaflet-shaped-the-eu-referendum/) leaflet at the cost of [several million](https://ejwwest.wordpress.com/the-governments-pro-remain-leaflet/) to the tax payer, that was not counted against their [spending limit](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/04/06/eu-referendum-taxpayers-to-fund9m-leaflet-to-every-home-warning/). One could argue this was [unsporting](http://spiritbodysoul.com/lies-in-hmg-leaflet-eu-referendum/).
1.10.8.6. Pro: An American Hedge Fund manager directed his [data analytics firm](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2017/feb/26/us-billionaire-mercer-helped-back-brexit) to provide expert advice to the Leave campaign on how to target swing voters via Facebook – a donation of services that was not declared to the electoral commission.
1.10.8.7. Pro: The previous vote should be rendered void given the legality of the Leave Campaign's funding has been [called into question](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-07-17/vote-leave-fined-for-breaking-electoral-law-in-brexit-campaign).
1.10.8.7.1. Con: This alone does not render the vote void, but is rather a matter of opinion from those who do want the vote to be void and to derail or even reverse the Brexit process.
1.10.8.7.2. Con: The referendum was only advisory. Legal effect was given by parliament triggering Art. 50. Rendering the referendum vote void would therefore have no effect in law.
1.10.9. Con: Politicians don't always achieve their promises, which can often make their claims misleading. This was or should have been factored in by voters.
1.10.9.1. Con: Prior to the referendum there had been some expectations that voters should hold political parties accountable for their manifesto promises.  It was this that led to pledge cards etc.  The scale of deception in the referendum went far beyond previous election behaviour.
1.10.9.2. Con: It's not just a broken promise. "Brexit" has severe consequences unknown to the major public and will damage the economy of UK.
1.10.9.3. Con: Because the referendum campaigns did not follow party lines, voters had little prior record by which to decide who they were willing to trust.
1.10.9.3.1. Con: There is no reason to believe that calling a second referendum would give voters enough precedence to make a more educated decision.
1.10.9.3.1.1. Con: Voters do, however, now know exactly how badly each of the referendum campaigns distorted the truth in their original campaign. Since largely the same people have remained as spokespeople for each point of view, they can now be judged on their actions and the results of the last two years, not just by vague promises that didn't have to be backed by results.
1.10.9.3.2. Con: Voting on precedence in a non-recurring referendum does not make sense, given it is an exceptional act that is being decided upon.
1.10.10. Pro: The result of the first referendum was inevitably skewed by the constant drip feed over many years of Anti EU propaganda, lies and myths put about by the popular press. [Myths](https://blogs.ec.europa.eu/ECintheUK/euromyths-a-z-index/), greatly but wrongly, 'informed' the British electorate.
1.10.11. Con: -> See 1.10.5.4.1.1.
1.11. Con: The use of referendums, especially on a UK-wide basis, [contradicts the principle of parliamentary supremacy](https://www.ft.com/content/74d42df2-da1b-3c43-938d-e3b6c93a50ca).
1.11.1. Pro: It would undermine Parliament in the eyes of the world if the public blocks their deal last minute.
1.11.1.1. Con: Parliament is not necessarily seen as doing the work of the people who democratically elected them at the present moment, with support for Brexit falling after more facts about the misleading agenda of groups leading up to the vote become clear.
1.11.1.2. Con: In a country where the government serves and defend the people, the people should always have the last words, in respect to constitutional laws and minorities
1.11.1.3. Con: Choosing a policy on the basis of what's best for Parliament's public image does not seem very wise.
1.11.1.4. Con: Every general election would undermine Parliament 'in the eyes of the world' if this logic were adopted. People don't always agree with what parliament has allowed though. That is why there are elections.
1.11.1.5. Pro: Such a public display of no confidence in our own system could cripple the economy and send the value of the pound spiralling down.
1.11.1.5.1. Con: This view is very short-sighted. Such a no-confidence drop for the pound will readjust to real economic facts within months, but the impact on getting leave/stay wrong will influence both the UK and the EU for decades.
1.11.1.6. Con: Parliament would have to agree to a referendum for one to happen. As such it wouldn't undermine them if they decide to put it to a public vote.
1.11.2. Con: [Parliamentary Sovereignty](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parliamentary_sovereignty_in_the_United_Kingdom) states that parliament has "the right to make or unmake any law whatever; and, further, that no person or body is recognised by the law of England as having a right to override or set aside the legislation of Parliament". Neither the first nor any future referendum is binding in law unless parliament explicitly makes it so. Referenda are advisory only.
1.11.2.1. Con: And herein lies a problem. The Westminster parliament - which is supposed to represent the union of the various nations of the United Kingdom - has assumed the mantle of an 'English' Parliament first and foremost. The EU referendum *should* have been defined in terms of each constituent part of the UK voting, instead the residents of the UK got a majority English vote overwhelming everyone else.
1.11.2.1.1. Con: The constituent nations are never going to be able to join the EU, without England because their [GDP's are too low](https://www.good-distribution-practice-group.org/good-distribution-practice-guidelines.html) for them to join. [The EU has also confirmed this](https://fullfact.org/law/can-scotland-stay-in-eu/).
1.11.2.1.2. Con: This is incorrect. The Westminster Parliament represents the UK, as a whole. The UK is considered a single country internationally, despite being a union of four smaller countries. In a democratic vote, the majority rules. The majority of the population of the United Kingdom voted to leave, despite what individual parts or constituents may have voted.
1.11.2.1.3. Con: The point was [discussed](https://hansard.parliament.uk/Commons/2015-06-16/debates/15061658000001/EuropeanUnionReferendumBill#contribution-15061658000526) during the passage of the Referendum Bill and dismissed because the vote was to be advisory and not in any way binding.
1.11.3. Con: A second referendum wouldn't contradict the principle of parliamentary supremacy any more than the first one did. Given that [far more parliamentarians support remaining in the EU](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-eu-referendum-35616946) rather than leaving it might even enhance it.
1.11.4. Con: Power should lie with the people as a whole, rather than the relatively tiny group of people that parliament is composed of. From a democratic point of view, referenda are more legitimate than parliamentary supremacy.
1.11.4.1. Con: This is untrue. The principles of representative democracy, were set out clearly by Edmund Burke in his famous speech to the electors of Bristol, those principles were already well established and his speech is almost universally accepted as definitive: [press-pubs.uchicago.edu](http://press-pubs.uchicago.edu/founders/documents/v1ch13s7.html)
1.11.4.2. Con: Representative democracy gives power to people through a vote on officials, not through direct questions ordinary people are not informed about. What one's "democratic point of view" would be if judging by the latter case is direct democracy-leaning type, which is rare and definitely not an established preference.
1.12. Con: A vote on the final outcome of the negotiated deal is likely to affect the actual outcome of the negotiations.
1.12.1. Con: It could be a way for the government to have more leverage. If Remain wins, the UK will have a stronger voice in the EU to shape the future of the union and force the other 27 states to answer the concerns of the British people \(immigration for example\).
1.12.1.1. Con: If Remain wins, the EU will see it as British capitulation and have less reason to address the problems in the EU. They'll ignore things even more. History teaches us that giving in to tyranny and dictatorships simply emboldens them.
1.12.1.1.1. Con: If Remain wins, it's up to the British Government to fight for what the UK wants. Pretending the EU is a tyrannic and non-democratic institution is false.
1.12.1.1.1.1. Con: David Cameron [tried reform](https://www.politico.eu/article/david-cameron-eu-reform-deal-scorecard-brexit-eu-referendum-agreement/) before the referendum. He was laughed at and sent away with [nothing substantial](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-eu-referendum-35622105) to show for his efforts. Thus this shows that the EU rarely listens to its members.
1.12.1.1.1.1.1. Con: D. Cameron came back with a deal and he campaigned hard in the referendum to defend it. For him it was enough. \([D.Cameron EU deal](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-eu-referendum-35622105)\). In 1984, M. Thatcher was able to get a rebate from the EU \([Thatcher EU deal](https://www.euractiv.com/section/uk-europe/news/the-thatcher-rebate-uk-reimbursed-in-excess-of-e111-billion-by-eu-since-1985/)\). When two companies or individuals negotiate something, each party simply defends their own interest. A talented negotiator will always get more concessions from the other party. So maybe, people should question D.Cameron's negotiation tactics instead of blaming the EU.
1.12.1.1.1.1.2. Con: Cameron went seeking special deals for the UK, he did not go seeking overall reform.
1.12.1.1.1.1.2.1. Con: While it is true he went looking for a special deal, this was due to overwhelming social problems and perceived problems/issues with the EU from the British public. The failure to secure anything of legitimate material value directly led to the referendum.
1.12.1.1.1.1.2.1.1. Pro: That these issues existed for the UK and their population \(and likely others\) shows a flawed system. The EU's refusal to acknowledge them and engage does not mean they do not exist, and refusal to change in a meaningful way shows they are resistance to change and reformation
1.12.1.1.1.1.2.1.1.1. Pro: Worse, the minor and meager half-measure concessions the EU offered, which would not have really addressed the issues, show they are aware of the problems, and are still refusing to change to deal with them. This shows they have zero interest in reforming.
1.12.1.1.1.1.2.1.1.2. Con: It is not the EU's fault that the British government is thoroughly incompetent. On immigration, which seems to be the main issue for many, the UK there were plenty of restrictions that the UK could have imposed within the rules, but chose not to, or lacked the competence to do so.
1.12.1.1.1.2. Con: The impression of tyranny and the democratic nature of an institution is subjective to those observing it. While the EU does have a parliament and MEP's, its president is not elected by the people, but by the representatives.
1.12.1.1.1.2.1. Pro: The EU commission is not elected, nor is its head. Many people see them as unelected dictators issuing ultimatums and holding unjustifiable power. While some would undoubtedly disagree, this perception will be based upon one's view-point.
1.12.1.1.1.2.1.1. Con: EU citizens elect a parliament. That parliament elects the President of the EU commission and approve the nomination of the 28 commissioners. It's the EU parliament which passes legislation after it's been approved by the Council \(28 elected head of state\). There are no "unelected" technocrats passing legislation. The [EU](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-eu-referendum-36429482) is a democratic and legal institution.
1.12.1.1.1.2.2. Con: The UK has a Prime Minister who has not been directly elected by the people and instead came because she was the leader of the biggest party that came into power even if her party didn’t reach the majority. The President of the EU commission is nominated by the European Council comprise of 28 elected heads of state and is formally elected by the European Parliament \(elected by all EU citizens\). Both cases are democratic.
1.12.1.1.1.2.2.1. Con: Due to the close nature of the vote and the failure of any one party to secure a majority, many people in the UK would suggest that the government does not represent them and their views and feel dis-enfranchised with the democratic system, a common occurrence in the western world at the moment.
1.12.1.1.1.2.2.2. Con: Though people should vote for their MP, the Prime minister is the leader of the party and research has shown that many people vote for the personality over the party.
1.12.2. Con: Not at all. The vote is on the actually negotiated deal. Negotiations would have finished by this point.
1.12.3. Pro: This is especially true if one of the voting options is to ‘remain in the European Union’ as this may incentivise the most unfavourable terms to be offered.
1.13. Pro: New and significant information has come to light since the last referendum that may mean people should re-evaluate our decision.
1.13.1. Pro: The 2016 referendum campaign was not sufficiently thorough to lead voters to an informed decision in the first place.
1.13.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.6.1.4.1.1.1.2.1.2.1.1.
1.13.2. Pro: The first Brexit vote was manipulated by [Russia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_interference_in_the_2016_Brexit_referendum) in order to achieve the geopolitical goal of separating the UK from Europe, as outlined by Alexander Dugin in his book [Foundations of Geopolitics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foundations_of_Geopolitics).
1.13.2.1. Pro: Russian twitter bots posted a total of [65,000 tweets](https://www.channel4.com/news/factcheck/heres-what-we-know-about-alleged-russian-involvement-in-brexit) about the referendum – tweets that were described as showing a “clear slant towards the Leave campaign”. This calls the result into question.
1.13.3. Pro: The political instability following the first referendum has altered the context for the vote. As such, another vote on the final deal should be given.
1.13.3.1. Pro: The UK is facing a constitutional crisis as there is no majority in Parliament for any option. The government strategy is unable to secure a withdrawal agreement with the EU and in March 2019 the UK will be leaving without knowing what the future relations will be. This shows that there is no other way to move forward other than a people's vote with the option of leaving with no deal, accepting the government's proposal and remain.
1.13.3.2. Pro: Leading members of the cabinet [have resigned](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/brexit-latest-robert-courts-theresa-may-white-paper-a8448446.html), leaving the government in turmoil.
1.13.3.3. Pro: Many Tory MPs are opposed to the white paper proposed by Theresa May, which means the leader does not have the full support of her party at such a delicate time.
1.13.3.4. Con: This does not seem like a good enough justification for another vote, else one could argue that people should get a vote every time a situation changes or a government does something they don't like. There would be constant votes that would paralyse a government and nothing would ever get done.
1.13.3.4.1. Con: There is not likely to be a similar situation to the bind the UK is now in. This is not like a general election or just another referendum, it is a crisis caused by the inept management of the government itself. It looks increasingly like the government is deadlocked and it looks like even Parliament is deadlocked. The nation desperately needs a solution other than a disastrous, default hard Brexit.
1.13.3.4.1.1. Con: Hard Brexit may actually be the best possible result in the long run, if one can bear the short-medium term economic pain it will produce.
1.13.3.4.1.1.1. Pro: By starting from nothing, "at the bottom" as it were, with a blank slate, it is only possible to go up. With no pre-conditions or pre-conceived notions, Britain's hands will truly be free to navigate and chart its own future and destiny.
1.13.3.4.2. Con: No claim individually has to provide good enough justification for a decision. Here, we want to look at the aggregate of all arguments pro and con an idea. The parent claim \("political instability following ..."\) may not be the philosopher's stone of arguments, but it is an important piece in the overall puzzle.
1.13.3.5. Con: Another vote is unlikely to end political instability. Rather, it will likely cause more political turmoil and social unrest.
1.13.3.6. Pro: At the time of the referendum, it wasn't clear that Theresa May would depend on the DUP. \(which, in combination with the EU's position on Ireland, makes finding common ground that is acceptable both to EU and to DUP practically impossible\)
1.13.4. Pro: The President of the USA, with whom people assumed the UK could negotiate a new Trade Deal, appears to be following a policy of [protectionism](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-43512098), making a favorable deal less likely.
1.13.4.1. Pro: His attitude and words on his 7/18 visit to UK, EU and Putin, make the prospect of good relations between UK and US on trade or anything else increasingly unlikely.
1.13.5. Pro: -> See 1.10.
1.13.6. Con: New and significant information for and against the decisions to remain or leave will continue to be revealed even after a second vote or a third vote.
1.13.7. Pro: -> See 1.6.1.4.1.1.2.2.
1.13.8. Pro: The economic impacts that were merely previewed by speculation after the results would educate the vote of the general population. There are still people overlooking these impacts, however.
1.13.8.1. Pro: [Banks and other financial entities](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/05/17/reuters-america-factbox-impact-on-banks-from-britains-vote-to-leave-the-eu.html) scrambled to [secure licenses in other EU member states](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-britain-eu-banks-idUSKBN18413K), so as to keep access to the large market. This results in a loss of jobs, relocation of resources away from the UK and an evident shift of investment focus towards remaining members.
1.13.8.2. Pro: Speculation lead to a [huge wealth wipe-out](https://www.cnbc.com/2016/06/26/brexit-cost-investors-2-trillion-the-worst-one-day-drop-ever.html) worldwide entirely from perceived effects of the vote outcome. This is a signal for what direction the markets will take as the deal begins to take shape.
1.13.8.3. Pro: [Economic development warnings](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/08/10/britain-could-be-up-to-70billion-worse-off-if-it-leaves-the-sing/) were ignored
1.13.8.4. Pro: [Warning](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11979631/Brexit-vote-would-trigger-a-run-on-the-pound-warns-Bank-of-America.html)s of currency depreciation were ignored, the results [came](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/04/17/sterling-soars-to-high-level-since-the-brexit-vote.html) and the end result was [colossal.](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-07-08/pound-overtakes-argentine-peso-to-become-2016-s-worst-performer)
1.13.8.5. Con: The [warnings](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2016/may/28/economists-reject-brexit-boost-cameron) were ignored, the results mostly too, it seems. The latter sets precedent for further ignorance and therefore repetition of this cycle.
1.13.9. Pro: -> See 1.6.1.4.1.1.2.1.
1.13.10. Pro: -> See 1.6.1.4.1.1.2.3.
1.13.11. Pro: -> See 1.6.1.4.1.1.2.4.