Discussion Title: Sled dog racing should be banned.

1. Sled dog racing should be banned.
1.1. Con: This breed of dogs is meant to run and be active in a way that racing encourages.
1.1.1. Pro: Alaska Natives and Inuit in Canada, Greenland, Russia and Scandinavia have bred sled dogs for thousands of years.
1.2. Pro: Racing sled dogs causes them to suffer unnecessarily.
1.2.1. Pro: Dogs aren't getting the proper nutrients they need while they're racing.
1.2.2. Pro: Dogs are susceptible to dying of hypothermia in the extreme cold.
1.2.3. Con: Dogs are bred to thrive in these conditions and are checked at every checkpoint by vets.
1.2.3.1. Con: This is only true for the biggest races \(like the Iditarod\). There are many more races where there aren't vets.
1.2.4. Pro: Dogs are sentient beings and therefore they can suffer.
1.3. Con: The Iditarod is a vital piece of Alaskan history.
1.3.1. Con: Sled dog racing is not necessary to understand Alaska's history. One can read about it, you don't need to see it.
1.3.2. Con: This overshadows history with entertainment.
1.3.3. Pro: It is a living history of Alaska, a constant reminder of the [Great Serum Run](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1925_serum_run_to_Nome).
1.3.3.1. Con: The whole point of the journey [Balto](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Balto) took was not a race but was to serve a purpose, which racing doesn't currently do.
1.3.4. Pro: It is a celebration of surviving in harsh environment.
1.3.5. Pro: It is the celebration of Alaskan unity and community, coming together to help those in need, regardless of personal danger.
1.3.6. Con: The debate is about sled dog racing generally. Generalizing from claims the Iditarod—the most well-known race—does not reflect sled dog racing generally.
1.4. Pro: Sled dog racing breeds inhumane practices.
1.4.1. Pro: Past reports of dog doping, which have effects similar to steroids, have been recorded.
1.4.2. Pro: Selective breeding is uniquely harmful for sled dogs.
1.4.3. Pro: To save weight, mushers take only enough food that's necessary to sustain the dogs; the dogs are therefore malnourished.
1.4.3.1. Con: Not true: there's food at every stop available for the animals. Therefore, the mushers aren't responsible for carrying food.
1.4.4. Pro: The dogs are exposed to brutal trail conditions and they don't have the same protective equipment that mushers do.
1.4.5. Con: There are robust safeguards in place to ensure that sled dogs are treated ethically.
1.4.6. Con: There are forced rests throughout the race.
1.4.6.1. Pro: In the Iditarod, most mushers limit dogs to six hours of running before six hours of rest.
1.4.7. Pro: This is especially true for smaller, less-regulated races \(the Iditarod is a widely-watched and popular race. The debate is about more than the Iditarod\).
1.4.8. Con: Race organizers investigate instances of dog mistreatment or death to ensure that it doesn't ever happen again.
1.4.9. Con: Racers who treat dogs poorly are banned from racing
1.4.10. Pro: In time of climate change, continuing the sled race increasingly puts dogs in danger considering that there is less snowfall each year, making the trail more and more dangerous.
1.5. Con: Sled dog racing is good for the economy.
1.5.1. Pro: Tourists and locals come to partake in the ceremonies and attempt to mush.
1.5.2. Pro: People come to Alaska specifically to see the race, which contributes to local economies as they purchase hotels, food, etc.
1.5.2.1. Con: People come to Alaska for a variety of reasons. If the Iditarod is banned, people will visit for other reasons.
1.5.3. Con: This sacrifices animals for profit.
1.5.4. Con: Increased tourism driven by racing is bad for the environment \(emissions from traveling to Alaska etc\).
1.5.5. Con: When there is a lack of snow, money is spent on finding and bringing snow to ceremonial start and other race locations.
1.5.6. Pro: Most tourism takes place happens during the summer months; sled dog racing provides an important economic boost during the winter months when tourists would not otherwise visit.
1.5.7. Con: People today would much rather watch the Iditarod in 4K from the comfort of their warm living room in the lower-48.
1.6. Con: Sled dog racing builds community because Alaskans come together to share this event and celebrate the end of winter.
1.7. Con: Sled dog racing is culturally significant.
1.7.1. Pro: Sled dog racing is a vital part of Alaska Native culture.
1.7.1.1. Pro: Sled dogs were originally a means of transportation and hunting for Alaska Natives.
1.7.2. Con: Racing dogs is not the only way to celebrate culture.
1.7.3. Con: Racing wasn't the primary part of the Alaska Native culture but mushing as transportation was the culture, which would not be lost if we banned racing
1.8. Con: Sled dogs are treated well.
1.8.1. Pro: Injured or unwell dogs are air lifted out of the race to seek medical treatment asap.
1.8.2. Pro: There is a prized award, called the Leonard Seppla Award, which recognizes the musher who treats their dogs the best.
1.8.3. Pro: Mushers have an incentive to treat dogs well- healthy dogs are better racers
1.9. Pro: Sled dogs and mushers are forced to compete in a harsh environment, frequently leading to injuries for the dogs and even death.
1.10. Pro: Sled dogs are forced into racing without their consent.
1.10.1. Pro: Sled must race even when they're in pain or sick.
1.10.1.1. Con: Veterinarians at checkpoints do mandatory health checks and can remove dogs if they are sick or injured.
1.10.1.2. Con: Mushers are incentivized to drop sick dogs to prevent illness from spreading to the rest of team
1.10.2. Con: Sled dogs obviously want to run- before races they are pulling at harnesses, jumping around, and screaming.
1.10.2.1. Con: Dogs may be excited to race at first, but become exhausted later.
1.10.2.2. Pro: Dog researchers can understand when dogs are happy and sad by their facial expressions and their body language. We can use this to tell what dogs want to do.
1.10.3. Pro: Using dogs to entertain the public and provide a source of revenue without their ability to consent an equivalent to slavery.
1.11. Pro: Trail maintenance, rescue teams, venue and crowd control all have exorbitant costs, usually affecting small villages.
1.11.1. Con: Sled dog racing brings national attention and prominence to small villages that otherwise would not have their name in state or national media.
1.11.2. Pro: The needs of the village are not taken into account because the mushers only want to get through the village and not necessarily better the community.
1.12. Con: Sled dog racing is the fulfillment of the musher's right to the pursuit of happiness.
1.12.1. Pro: Socially, we allow people to engage in behaviors and activities as long as they don't actively harm someone.
1.12.2. Pro: Many mushers are continuing a family tradition.
1.12.3. Pro: Sled dog racing does not harm the animals, and allows for the musher to have fun.
1.12.4. Con: The rights of the dogs should be recognized as well.
1.12.5. Con: The musher's right to the pursuit of happiness should not come at the potential cost of the life and health of dogs.
1.12.6. Con: The musher could still find fulfillment by mushing in safe conditions and not racing.
1.12.7. Pro: Sled racing allows the musher to foster a strong relationship with animals and the environment.
1.13. Con: The Iditarod is necessary as a reminder of the importance of vaccines in our society.
1.13.1. Pro: The Iditarod reminds us of the need for rural medical care
1.13.2. Pro: Good reminder in current day and age that vaccines are a\) vitally necessary b\) people used to go to insane lengths to procure them
1.13.3. Con: The ceremony of sled dog racing doesn't really remind people of vaccines.
1.14. Pro: Sled dog racing promotes illegal gambling.
1.14.1. Con: Non-unique harm: any competitive activity facilitates gambling. Unless prop is willing to ban ALL competitive activities, they cannot claim this as a benefit.
1.14.2. Pro: The Iditarod is the main event in Alaska that gives a large group of Alaskans an opportunity to gamble.
1.15. Pro: Sled dog racing promotes stereotypes of living in the Arctic that misrepresent life in the north.
1.15.1. Pro: Sled racing supports tourists seeking the "wild west", igloos, polar bears--not the most accurate view of the realities of the north.
1.15.2. Pro: Sled racing doesn't accurately represent life in the Arctic and glosses over the native cultural usage of sled dogs.
1.15.3. Pro: Sled racing is essentially the northern equivalent of safari tourism.
1.16. Pro: Animals should not be used for human entertainment.
1.16.1. Con: The animals themselves may benefit from the exercise.
1.17. Con: Racing is well regulated to protect the dogs, if racing is banned, dog sledding still happen with less regulation.
1.17.1. Pro: We can always improve regulation to combat harms instead of banning the sport altogether.