Discussion Title: Star Trek: Discovery vs. The Orville

1. The Orville is a better Star Trek show than Star Trek: Discovery.
1.1. Con: Discovery is official, canon Trek. The Orville is not.
1.2. Con: "The Orville" actually lifts most of its plots from old "Star Trek" episodes.  While this is common practice on many television shows of many stripes, it doesn't make it superior to "Discovery" which is forging a completely new, and somewhat risky direction for "Star Trek". 

I believe this gives "Discovery" the advantage at storytelling, where "The Orville" plot and resolution are fairly easy to predict.
1.2.1. Con: While Discovery is forging a new, direction, a\) it's not a good direction, and b\) it's not a new direction compared to what's already in television. Sadly, Discovery gave up what made Star Trek unique and likeable \(thought provoking, social commentary, philosophical, challenging the norm, educational\), in attempt to become more of the television norm \(trashy, drama, to-be-continued\).
1.3. Pro: Provided the question can be understood as reasonable \(i.e. That there is a 'trek-ness' that can be said to be inhabited regardless of branding\) then the Orville, depicting a relatively functional and optimistic future in keeping with what we know about the Federation and the key morals and themes of the original series, then the Orville is better Trek. It is not a better show, but it is a better Star Trek show.
1.4. Pro: The Orville features an ensemble cast, just like all Star Trek shows before. Discovery on the other hand focuses mainly on a single protagonist.
1.5. Pro: The Orville just [feels more Star Trecky](http://whatculture.com/tv/10-ways-the-orville-is-more-star-trek-than-discovery) than Discovery.
1.6. Con: The Orville doesn't take itself serious enough.
1.6.1. Pro: The jokes in The Orville often seem forced.
1.6.1.1. Con: Trek comedy always seems forced, see "Let He Who Is Without Sin" or "Two Days And Two Nights." Bad comedy is not an argument against trek-ness.
1.6.2. Con: It's not trying to take itself too seriously, it's a comedy.
1.7. Pro: The Orville features stand alone episodes in contrast to the Discovery's longer story arcs.
1.8. Con: Discovery includes many components of classic trek lore: Sarek, tribbles, Mudd, gorn, Vulcan logic, Klingons, etc.
1.8.1. Con: Most of Discovery's Star Trek lore is only fan service without any impact on the story.
1.8.2. Con: Discovery's Klingons are only superficially similar to the original versions.
1.8.3. Pro: Mudd played a central role in several of Discovery's episodes.
1.8.4. Pro: Michael is actually Spock's adopted sister.
1.8.5. Con: This argument is leveraging the literal and technical abilities granted to Discovery by copyright laws, against a more holistic argument about theme, style, intent, philosophy, etc. It's basic to state that Discovery has tribbles and the Orville does not. However, Discovery has little-to-no soul, while The Orville is truly soulful in the most Roddenberry ways.
1.9. Pro: Many high-profile TNG/DS9/Voyager crew members are involved in the production of The Orville \(Braga, Bormanis, Frakes, etc.\).
1.9.1. Pro: There are probably more 'official' trekkies involved in the production of The Orville than in ST:Discovery.
1.10. Pro: Most of The Orville's episode discuss a central social issue \(e.g. gender, religion, social media\). This has always been a core component of Star Trek.
1.11. Pro: The Orville has characters who impersonate human ideals like compassion or morality. Discovery deals with troubled characters struggling with inner conflicts.
1.11.1. Pro: Discovery's Cpt. Lorca may be a war criminal. No other Star Trek captain before has even come close to such an assumption.