Discussion Title: Stealing is never acceptable

1. Stealing is never acceptable
1.1. Con: Often, the tangible benefits gained by the thief outweigh the costs of those who were stolen from \(e.g. food stolen from a shop benefits the thief greatly\).
1.1.1. Pro: Taking away a animal from somebody can be considered stealing, because animal is viewed as property. Sometimes you need to steal a animal to protect its well-being and rights.
1.1.1.1. Pro: There are lots of examples of animal rights activist taking animals from farmers and putting them in a better home, or setting them free. They have no permission or legal right to do it, and they don't intend to return the animals. They have sometimes been taken to court, and convicted for theft.
1.1.2. Con: The cost of a theft may be more that the item stolen e.g. a fine or short-term imprisonment depending on the severity of the crime.
1.1.3. Pro: It is morally justified \(under utilitarianism\) to steal food from a shop who makes a small financial loss, in order to feed a family improving their health and ability, benefiting them greatly.
1.1.3.1. Con: Justification would require necessity, but stealing usually is not the only way achieve this benefit.
1.2. Pro: Stealing is against the law, and there are other laws to help those in a position where they "need to steal" to survive. If one is not receiving financial aide from the government, then they fall into an income level higher than that of the baseline income. Therefore, financially, they do not need to steal.
1.3. Con: Some thefts are so minor they are completely negligible and acceptable.
1.3.1. Con: Small crimes can easily become the start of a behavior or addiction.
1.3.2. Pro: Shoplifting of small or low-value items is a good example.
1.3.2.1. Con: Shoplifting is hardly minor. It may be negligible to the company but it still affects the thief. First of all, the property stolen does not belong to you, and you have no right to it.
1.3.2.2. Con: While the impact of small individual thefts may have a small impact the cumulative result can very well force a store to close its doors.
1.3.3. Con: If they were negligible or in any way acceptable, it wouldn't be prohibited.
1.3.3.1. Con: Murder is morally worst than stealing, death penalty \(which is legalized murder\) is in many places morally justified, if murder can sometimes be acceptable, then it follows that stealing is sometimes justifiable.
1.3.4. Con: This ignore the moral stance that taking what does not belong to you is wrong.  While it may be more effort to track down the theft than the object was worth, that does not make it acceptable.
1.3.5. Pro: Taking a pen from a company, or borrowing a pencil from a friend and not giving it back could be considered as theft that many people think are ok.
1.3.6. Pro: Obeying every law and principle extremly strict will make life unnecessarily hard. By allowing some minor things, like stealing a pen or a paper, life could be easier for everyone.
1.3.7. Pro: Asking, and getting the right permission to take something, sometimes is more time consuming and disturbing for the owner than just stealing it without permission.
1.3.7.1. Con: This is no sense justifies stealing; it just gives an excuse.
1.3.7.2. Pro: Stealing is wrong because it is against the rights or desire of the owner. If the owner have no problem with people stealing something small, then there is no problem.
1.4. Con: It is important to remember that stealing is of physical and non-physical things. Therefore, we are all thieves because anything and everything can be stolen. Stealing someone's attention. Stealing someones desires. Stealing is not only acceptable but absolutely necessary in order for evolution and life to progress.
1.5. Pro: Stealing hurts others financially.
1.5.1. Pro: It is utterly morally and fiscally unjust to take from those who have earned or accrued their wealth.
1.5.1.1. Con: National borders are mostly set by claiming it which may just as well be a form of theft. Natural sources owned by either a government or company and exploiting it commercially detrimental to i.e. a local community might just as well be immoral and a form of theft.
1.5.2. Pro: It is difficult to guarantee that the person one is stealing from is rich enough to cope with the theft; it may push another person into a desperate situation.
1.5.3. Con: Not all theft hurts anyone financially, often it amounts only to a negligible reduction in the massive profits of large corporations.
1.5.4. Pro: Stealing for enrichment is never acceptable. Stealing also weakens the social links, "taxes" unjustly the victims and removes value from the economy - a stolen valuable sells for a fraction of its real price.
1.5.4.1. Con: Valuables selling for less than "market value" in gray or black markets enrich poorer buyers, who would otherwise not benefit from access to that good.
1.6. Pro: In developed societies there is no reason to steal given the availability of public support.
1.6.1. Con: Then according to this, there is reason to steal in developing countries. Therefore, the act of stealing is acceptable on a contextual basis.
1.6.1.1. Pro: If a state fails in its responsibility to protect and look after its citizens adequately, then the citizens should have the right to disregard that state's laws and do what is necessary to survive
1.6.2. Con: There is often further reasons as to why someone may not receive public support e.g. they may be living in a country illegally or someone may be looking for money to seek an illegal good or service therefore they cannot ask for help \(just because something is illegal does not mean it is immoral\).
1.6.3. Con: “What is the robbing of a bank compared to the founding of a bank?” - Bertolt Brecht. Capitalism itself is itself a criminal system that robs the working poor of the fruits of their labor.
1.6.4. Con: It's often the case that due to unnecessarily complicated and heavy bureaucracy, lack of adequate information or simply a badly designed welfare system, public support doesn't reach those it's supposed to reach, or do so for a sufficient period of time. Add to that the stigmatisation that goes with having to prove that you need it, as well as the corruption that goes with any means testing and you lose even more beneficiaries.
1.7. Con: Property recognizes the adverse possession, which could be said to be a form of stealing but we accept it because it creates more benefits than harms.
1.7.1. Con: Adverse possession involves the trespassing party already possessing the land.  This makes it very different from theft.  It is also inaccurate to state it creates more good than harm as property is still being taken from another party
1.8. Con: Often, the holders of wealth have themselves accumulated it through unjust means, and theft is a valid form of rectifying that injustice on an individual scale.

this article discusses multiple studies on the issues prevalence
[The Spreading Scourge of Corporate Corruption](https://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/11/business/economy/the-spreading-scourge-of-corporate-corruption.html)
1.8.1. Con: If someone have done something unjust, in a democratic society it's the responsibility of the state to judge what to do. Individuals should try to change the law, not just take the law in their own hands.
1.8.2. Pro: But stealing from a thief does not right a wrong, it only creates another thief.
1.8.3. Con: In order to properly address corruption integrity is of the utmost importance and theft and other crimes can only undermine this effort.
1.9. Pro: Burglary can often lead to a severe emotional impact on its victims. This cannot be justified by the needs of the burglar.
1.9.1. Con: The emotional impact of having no money, no resources and no future - even facing potential death - outweighs the difficulties of the victim.
1.9.1.1. Pro: Often small things, such as aspirin is necessary. Those won't hurt a pharmacy but literally reduce the pain of the poor.
1.9.1.2. Pro: That utilitarian argument assumes the thief has the omniscient power to properly decide whether the loaf of bread was needed more by the thief's family or the family he stole it from.
1.9.2. Pro: The owner of different items may attach sentimental value that substantially outweighs the monetary value; nobody has a right to take such items from their rightful owners.
1.9.3. Con: If we are talking about major corporations \(shoplifting\) or rich persons or governments.  This does not apply.   

I'm not justifying theft, just countering your argument.
1.10. Pro: Stealing only exists when we all agree that it is not in the group's interest to do so. Our laws are not absolute, but they shouldn't be cherry picked either. We fall prey to a breakdown of logic because we allow our ideologies to guide our thought process. If stealing is "sometimes" okay, then all other offenses become open to interpretation. Stealing is an act of power, thus we need to do more to empower those who think it necessary. Promote creativity, not justification for either or.
1.10.1. Pro: Stealing is a violation of natural law in and of itself, even without recourse to the harm it inflicts on the victim.
1.10.1.1. Con: Nature doesn't recognize "property" therefore stealing is not an issue of "natural laws".
1.10.1.2. Pro: Taking something from another person, whether or not it is necessary for survival, will always have an adverse psychological effect on the thief.
1.10.1.2.1. Con: This is a baseless claim and completely ignores that unverified psychological damage from theft \(which of course could - and often is - avoided through rationalization\) isn't comparable to real physical damage caused by lack of access to certain goods - like food or shelter.
1.10.1.3. Con: To own something is a violation of natural law.
It prevents other from accesing the resources, so also in way: owning is already stealing.
1.11. Pro: Thefts can turn violent if the thief is caught, leading to potential fights, injury or death. This risk cannot be justified.
1.11.1. Con: This is reasonably rare; most stealing is rather petty.
1.11.1.1. Con: Mugging is a form of stealing that is fundamentally based on fear and potential confrontation with a good chance of turning violent
1.11.2. Pro: There is stealing that goes below the radar, or is not forbidden by law. Enter state corruption and inner circle deals. Politicians aiming for a good position in business after pushing laws favorable to this said business. Stealing just for greed is morally wrong. Stealing to survive is justified. Is stealing from a corrupt politician really stealing?
1.11.3. Con: In the event that it does turn violent, then a whole new crime has occurred, violence. Which means that at the core, the claim is not about theft, but about violence.
1.12. Con: Some people may have no choice but to steal, in order to support themselves or their family.
1.12.1. Con: If the thief is caught and arrested, their family will no longer have any support from them anyway, causing them greater suffering.
1.12.1.1. Con: If stealing was a last resort and that the family cannot be in a worst situation, it is still worth the gamble.
1.12.1.1.1. Con: A responsible parent should not gamble being taken away from their family when they are already in such dire straights
1.12.2. Pro: When people are stealing to save lives \(people on the edge of starvation\) then stealing is of course justified.
1.12.2.1. Con: When people get caught, courts will convict the person stealing to save lives. As such, it isn't justified by judges.
1.12.2.1.1. Con: Courts deal with laws, not ethics.
1.12.2.2. Pro: Ultimately, human life has to be valued above the moral issues around stealing; stealing therefore can be acceptable.
1.12.3. Pro: If it is justified to steal under certain contexts, then the act of stealing itself is not inherently wrong.
1.12.3.1. Con: It is not a question of right or wrong but more the tolerance given in some cases depending on the context.
1.12.4. Con: Even if desperate, stealing should never be considered acceptable; it sets a dangerous moral precedent, where crimes can be validated if sufficient context is given.
1.12.4.1. Con: If one can easily spare another from suffering, but they refuse, that is an even more dangerous moral precedent.
1.12.4.2. Con: There is established precedent that crimes can be justified based on context. For example, it is both moral and legal to break into a burning building to save lives, even if it is technically trespassing.
1.12.4.3. Con: Some crimes are validated if sufficent context is given, take for example murder in case of self defense. Therefore if stealing is a less serious crime it should be tolerated given the right context.
1.12.4.4. Con: The idea of just accepting and obeying the law as it is, is also dangerous. Immoral actions could be validated if they are according to the law.
1.12.5. Pro: The right to life outweighs the right to property.