Discussion Title: Stoa TP Resolution Vote 2018-2019

1. Stoa TP Resolution Vote 2018-2019
1.1. People should vote for:
3\) Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially reform its foreign aid.
1.1.1. Con: Too broad; hard for negatives to prepare.
1.1.2. Con: Too many generics.
1.1.2.1. Con: Generics are a good thing \(see children for reasons\).
1.1.2.1.1. Pro: They are more useful in the real world.
Having niche information about a specific proposal only applies to that specific proposal. For example, only knowing details about NAFTA, rather than understanding trade policy arguments in general, is not as useful as understanding the generic arguments.
1.1.2.1.2. Pro: Being able to properly apply \(and argue against\) generics is a valuable lesson and skill for the real world: 
It teaches on-the-fly adaptation and critical thinking in that one must use sources/information in perhaps-unfamiliar ways, rather than just repeating what some author has said about some argument you have already thoroughly prepared for.
1.2. People should vote for: 
2\) Resolved: One or more international conventions on environmental issues should be substantially reformed.
1.2.1. Con: No actor is specified, which is problematic for multiple reasons \(see children claims for reasons\)
1.2.1.1. Pro: It is unclear who or what can or can't act to reform the convention: is it all the countries working together, is it some central body, is it a single country, etc.
1.2.1.2. Pro: This allows way too many possible actors, making it very difficult for negatives to adequately prepare.
1.2.1.3. Pro: This allows for abusive/unrealistic cases, such as cases which have China or Russia uncharacteristically agreeing to have their sovereignty trampled by inspections, restrictions, etc. which would be clearly out of line with their typical practices.
1.3. People should vote for:
1\) Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially reform its international policies towards infectious diseases.
1.3.1. Con: Too narrow
1.3.1.1. Con: Narrow is good...
\(Why?\)
1.3.1.1.1. Con: Narrow can be good, but specifically focusing on infectious diseases is *too* narrow.
1.3.2. Con: Too many emotional/fear appeals.
1.3.2.1. Con: It's important that students learn how to properly combat these appeals to emotion/fear.
1.3.3. Con: Too much science-y jargon stuff for time-constrained debates between high school students.