Discussion Title: Student unions should be allowed in schools and universities

1. Student unions should be allowed in schools and universities
1.1. Pro: Student unions could prevent bad professors from teaching, this would cause an improvement in general education
1.1.1. Con: Student unions can protest, but they generally do not have the power to hire or fire working professors.
1.2. Pro: Student unions could prevent professors from intentionally failing students due to personal factors
1.2.1. Con: Often, 'personal factors' are too nebulous to prove in either direction, and student unions cannot impact this too much.
1.3. Con: Student unions could prevent the creativity of the professors by demanding a strict teaching methodology.
1.4. Pro: Student unions would make students more involved in the educational process. Making them more interested in their studies.
1.5. Pro: If students have a vote in certain academic decisions, they would be more encouraged to propose and innovate in teaching methodologies. This in turn would bring new ideas to the teaching methodologies.
1.6. Con: As every political or organized structure. The student unions could be corrupt and represent only the interests of a few students.
1.6.1. Con: Corruption is more likely when there are economic interests in the middle. For student unions, that would not be the case.
1.6.1.1. Con: Even though it is more likely, corruption is also present in positions of power with no economic incentive. A vote in academic decisions for example, can be as desired as an economic incentive,
1.7. Pro: Professors would be more responsible \(attend every class, be polite, etc.\) if students had power over them
1.7.1. Pro: Professors would be more inclusive with every student and be respectful also.
1.7.2. Con: Teachers should be doing this regardless of students having power; if they aren't attaining basic standards of teaching, that would usually be monitored by administration.
1.8. Con: Good professors could be fired for being too strict. The consequence would be a less demanding education, because professors would be afraid to fail students in exchange for being fired.