Discussion Title: Supreme Court Justice elections

1. Supreme Court Justices should be elected officials.
1.1. Pro: This would help eliminate a "loaded" supreme Court scenario, as instead of one party nominating like minded justices \(conservative president nominating conservative justices or liberal justice by liberal president\). Each nominee would have to run for election to the Supreme Court, at each seat, thus giving citizens choices from all spectra of judicial leanings.
1.2. Con: The Supreme Court is essentially reflective of the popular vote anyway, since justices are usually appointed with corresponding judicial philosophy as the party who nominates them. If citizenship elects all conservative politicians, then by proxy they're voting for conservative supreme Court appointments as well.
1.3. Pro: Lifetime appointment warrants the democracy to elect this individual at popular vote.
1.4. Con: This would create times of an even number of justices, and delay or stifle important legal decisions.
1.4.1. Con: this could be overcome by Temporary justices from the federal court during interim election years
1.5. Con: It is difficult for the populace to learn ruling history for a judge. This makes an educated vote problematic
1.5.1. Pro: As well, as creating an even more politcal court as votes would often be around party lines, not around education, or knowledge of rulings.
1.5.2. Con: The media would certainly be able to summarize and explain the ruling history of candidates for the populace.
1.6. Pro: There is already a precedent for electing judges, i.e. county circuit court judge.
1.6.1. Con: This practice has received wide-spread criticism. Just because there is precedent doesn't mean this practice should be expanded, and especially so to important offices like those of judges on the Supreme Court.
1.7. Pro: Lobbyists and politicians are increasingly using Supreme Court appointments to push political agendas, as seen in the cases of Merrick Garland and Brett Kavanaugh, and should therefore be treated the same as any other political agenda...vote on it.
1.8. Con: This would politicize the appointment so much more than it already is
1.8.1. Con: The appointment of Supreme Court judges is already highly politicized alongside partisan lines. As many voters are not as partisan as the politicians who currently appoint judges to the court, a popular vote might therefore de-politicize the issue.