Discussion Title: Thanos Did Nothing Wrong

1. Thanos Did Nothing Wrong
1.1. Con: With that power he could have doubled the resources available in the universe, instead of killing half of it.
1.2. Con: What he did didn't even save the universe, so it was all for nothing.
1.2.1. Pro: Killing half of everyone doesn't prevent future population growth, so he's only postponed the inevitable.
1.2.2. Con: It wasn't clear in the end that he didn't save the universe.
1.3. Con: He killed half the universe.
1.3.1. Pro: Probably more since there must've been commercial pilots, doctors, bus drivers, nuclear power plant workers, etc. who's death's would have caused more death.
1.4. Pro: He saved humanity from eventual suffering.
1.4.1. Con: There is no evidence of Thanos being certain that humanity will suffer in the future.
1.4.1.1. Con: Thanos witnessed his own planet's suffering, and therefore is aware of the signs.
1.5. Con: Thanos's brand of population control is studied in economics to be [ineffective and fundamentally detrimental](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malthusian_catastrophe) to societies at large.
1.6. Pro: He saved half of the universe by ensuring they wouldn't run out of resources.
1.6.1. Pro: Thanos did what [90%](http://healthland.time.com/2011/12/05/would-you-kill-one-person-to-save-five-new-research-on-a-classic-debate/) of people would do.
1.6.1.1. Pro: The challenge Thanos faced, was a [trolley problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trolley_problem). Killing a few to save most, has been shown to be the moral decision majority of society would make.
1.6.1.2. Con: His solution was to kill 1 to save 1 when it was dubious if the person being killed posed a threat.
1.6.2. Con: Thanos did nothing to change the underlining cause of that problem: population growth. Barring further intervention, the universe would be as populated in a few centuries.
1.6.3. Con: He could have doubled the resources instead of halving the population
1.7. Con: He sacrificed his 'daughter'.
1.8. Con: He tortures people\(Nebula physically and Star-Lord mentally for example\)
1.9. Pro: All of his wrongdoings were in the pursuit of a greater good and not without merit.
1.9.1. Pro: Thanos did what he thought was morally right to do.
1.9.2. Con: Just trying to do the right thing does not mean he did nothing wrong.
1.9.3. Con: While his cleansing was egalitarian, it did nothing to improve the universe. By randomly selecting lifeforms to cleanse, he didn't take into account what the planets needed. All he did was halve the problem.
1.10. Con: There were plenty of other ways to save the universe.
1.11. Con: Even if his genocide was justified, his recklessness wasn't. He didn't seem to have much concern for the soon to be 'saved' half of the universe while we was in pursuit of the infinity stones and destroying cities and planets.