Discussion Title: The United States Needs a Strong Third Political Party For Moderates

1. The United States Needs a Strong Political Party For Moderates
1.1. Pro: Americans would no longer have to vote for the "lesser of two evils."
1.1.1. Pro: A 2 party democracy is a fallacy in the name of democracy. New ideologies, new kind of politics must be allowed to come up and exist, as new political parties. Only then it will be a true democracy.
1.1.2. Con: It is quite possible that a third party may not be much better than the two main parties in the US.
1.1.2.1. Con: It is quite possible that a third party may be much better than the two main parties in the US.  For example, the International Logic Party.
1.1.2.2. Con: Many individuals would likely find that true. Regardless, diversity and variety are prerequisite to democratic efficacy because condensed choices over-generalize a broad spectrum of ideological possibility. By extension, even more than three parties would be even more democratically effective.
1.1.3. Con: Many people do not believe there are politicians who have their best interests and needs in mind, or do not agree with everything that politicians stand for. Therefore, they are unlikely to see a third candidate as extremely preferable.
1.1.4. Con: The need to vote for the lesser of two evils is more a product of the voting system in the US than the lack of a strong moderate party.
1.1.5. Con: The claim that Americans currently "have to vote for the 'lesser of two evils,'" is demonstrably false.  Americans do not have to vote at all.  Abstention is legal.
1.1.5.1. Con: Yes,  while its legal to not vote, the massive amounts of people not voting has led to a little over a quarter of the population choosing who represents the whole.
1.1.5.2. Con: Having to either begrudgingly decide, or have no impact whatsoever, is not an effective model for representation.
1.2. Pro: They allow non-corrupt candidates to run and have ballot access.
1.2.1. Pro: That is exactly what the system utilized by the [International Logic Party](http://gofundme.com/egora-ilp23) allows and enables.
1.2.2. Con: It is still possible that the candidates who run are corrupt in a third party.
1.2.3. Con: There is no supplied evidence to show that the current parties are corrupt.
1.2.4. Con: Lowering donation limits to parties and increasing state funding would be a more efficient way to decrease corruption.
1.2.4.1. Con: Supporting the [International Logic Party](http://gofundme.com/egora-ilp23) and its system of internally funding candidates is an even more efficient way to decrease corruption.
1.3. Con: Assuming the third party gained popularity to rival the R/D parties, someone could theoretically win a Presidential election with about 1/3 of the popular vote.
1.3.1. Pro: The Constitution does not say the winner of the Presidential election must get the majority of the popular vote.
1.3.2. Pro: Under the current two-party system “none of the above” is the clear winner: few eligible voters even turn out to vote.
1.4. Con: Alternatives exist presently.  Why we're not using these is the real question. The idea of a two party system only is a 20th century construct. If voters don't like the two primary parties, you can still join the Libertarians or any of the others out there.
1.4.1. Con: Both the 'third' parties are often seen as castoffs of the two. The idea that Libertarians are rejected Republicans and the Greens are rejected Democrats keeps a lot of moderates out of either. Another choice may provide a fresh option for people who still consider the Libs and Greens to be borne of two party system reaction.
1.5. Pro: Democrats and Republicans polarize the nation.
1.5.1. Pro: Political philosophy is not a binary system.
1.5.1.1. Pro: Political identity is based on one's opinion on thousands of policy approaches.
1.5.1.1.1. Pro: When voicing one's opinion on a particular policy, listeners routinely assume the speaker's party affiliation with little evidence. This mechanism promotes ignorance, stereotyping and lessens the quality and effectiveness of public discourse.
1.5.2. Con: A third party would divide the country further, and it would be possible for a party to win with even less percentage of voters, making an even smaller group of people decide the fate of the election.
1.5.2.1. Con: The parties having to work together might actually lead into a percentage of the people supporting the bills.
1.6. Con: Both the Republicans and the Democrats exist right-of-centre in an international political compass, and as such, a 'moderate' party between the two would not produce as many innovations in policy as a party outside the platform of both parties simultaneously.
1.7. Con: The GOP is presently a party of moderates already. Expert analysis shows Trump Administration policies [are centrist rather than hard right](https://www.nationalreview.com/2017/02/donald-trump-conservative-agenda-not-radical-more-centrist/). The New York Times even labels him: [Trump, the Centrist President.](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/31/opinion/trump-the-centrist-president.html) It's actually the hard right who is lacking in representation, not moderates \(centrists\).
1.8. Con: Third parties lack organization and infrastructure.
1.8.1. Con: Usually, but not always.  The [International Logic Party](http://gofundme.com/egora-ilp23) is structured differently than all other parties before it.  It can grow at a low cost and it has a very adaptable structure to any problem and any political environment.
1.8.2. Con: That is because the established parties have ensured all financial support and media attention is blocked from these other parties. Plus years of propaganda to ensure voters believe they are meaningless. Look at European countries like the Netherlands, where multi-party systems works very well. More parties equates better representation and therefore better democracy. In the USA it usually ends up voting for the least bad choose \(while both options are usually pretty bad\)
1.8.3. Pro: They usually are used to promote a single issue or a general idea, rather than actually get people elected.
1.8.3.1. Con: That is not true; that is just the perception people have. For example. the Green Party is not just for environmental issues. They also fight for free public education, regulations on banks, public healthcare, medicine price negations, and much more. Your claim is false.
1.8.3.2. Con: That is true. But if a third party gets elected \(not their presidential candidate\) it still represents the peoples interest in that topic and thus can push individual topics with the help of the bigger parties. \(e.g. Germany and its Party system\)
1.9. Pro: The Democratic and Republican party ideologies have drifted so far apart that many Americans cannot fully identify with either.
1.9.1. Pro: Political identity is a spectrum, not two extremes.
1.9.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.1.1.
1.9.1.2. Pro: There are a variety of political science models depicting [spectra](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_spectrum) describing variety in political values. Most estimate a spectrum of two dimensions: civil liberties and economic liberties.
1.9.2. Con: The Democratic and Republican parties are strikingly similar.  Small differences are emphasized by politicians for political purposes and by media outlets to generate interest.
1.9.2.1. Con: The two parties have about as much in common as a chimpanzee has with a gorilla.
1.9.2.1.1. Pro: Sure they both have the same ideals about the constitution and the three branches of government but they are radically different on other issues like gay rights.
1.10. Con: The Democratic Party is already quite moderate, especially in the 2016 presidential election
1.10.1. Con: The Democratic Party [moved further left in 2016](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2016/01/13/obama-moved-left-on-the-economy-many-democrats-moved-farther/?utm_term=.b43e277f0752) and were not considered centrist or moderate.
1.10.2. Con: The 2016 election was quite divisive. Many people wanted a viable third party candidate. Unfortunately, what third party candidates we had did not get the chance to debate.

In many topics, the rhetoric always seems to be Democrats vs. Republicans. For example, pro-life vs. pro-choice. A moderate party would look towards the middle.
1.10.2.1. Con: Many issues such as the example given of abortion, require people to take a clear stance on one side of the debate. Being in the middle of such issues would likely make it look like the candidate did not have clear opinions and would hurt them with voters.
1.10.2.1.1. Con: A clear stance yes, but one can take a clear stance in the middle.
1.10.2.1.1.1. Pro: A clear, middle stance like "women should be allowed to get an abortion but only after listening to the heartbeat and seeing the sonogram so they can make an informed decision."
1.10.2.1.1.2. Pro: A clear, middle stance like "A woman's third abortion should include a tubes tied or other more permanent birth control."
1.10.2.1.1.3. Pro: Two parties have a strong tendency to think in absolutes: never allow abortions or always allow abortions no matter the circumstances.
1.10.3. Con: That is an opinion not a fact. The intent of the thesis was probably to suggest a 3rd party whose policies landed somewhere in the middle of our current 2 party system; thereby making it "moderate" by comparison to the 2 opposing ideological views currently being presented by democrats and republicans.
1.10.4. Pro: "Moderate" is relative.  In substance the two major parties are both very close to each other.  Still the parties and the country are bitterly divided.  This has more to do with political rivalry than policy.  In terms of policy there is not much room between the two for a third party.
1.11. Con: "Moderate" is a fluid term, varying widely on the perspective of the individual. In other words, one person's moderate, is another's extremist, and defining a true "moderate" platform could prove impossible.
1.11.1. Pro: Most people see moderation the same way they see driving on the highway. Anyone going faster is a maniac, and anyone going slower is an idiot.
1.11.2. Con: The book, [The Centrist Manifesto](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17119454-the-centrist-manifesto) by Charles Wheelan, has clearly defined what ideas a moderate third party would promote. The ideologies in the book are promoted by the group [Unite America](https://www.uniteamerica.org/).
1.11.3. Con: Moderate as a third political party is defined as the middle between the Democrats and the Republicans. It is therefore not too difficult to define.
1.11.3.1. Con: When the two parties overlap, there is no "middle between."
1.11.4. Pro: There is likely going to be a cross over point where the politicians labelled as 'moderates' argue for similar policies as either the Democrats and Republicans because views of a party will unlikely be always "moderate".
1.11.4.1. Con: We need more than three parties because the parent idea would lead to the "moderate" party dominating, becoming a single party with the Democrats and Republicans existing as puppet parties only.
1.11.5. Con: We use the term moderate to define the inner edges of the two parties as they stand now. Many of those moderates would probably happily distance themselves from the far right or left wings of their party with a viable independent option. The people in the moderate wings of both parties are likely to have more in common with the moderates of the other party than those at the far wings of their current party.
1.11.6. Con: The third party will have to lay its spotlight on different aspects to be able to stand out and get votes.
1.12. Pro: Having a third political party will force politicians to work together and compromise.
1.12.1. Con: Your claim relies on the premise that compromise in the current US political climate is a good thing. It isn't. In fact, it is a negative thing. In the past few decades, both political parties have shifted far towards one end of the political spectrum. As such, compromising "in the middle" will only result in a more extreme policy. Instead, the political spectrum should shift back towards public opinion and the former center, not towards a fake "center" which is actually relatively extreme.
1.13. Pro: Our form of government was designed in such a way that requires us to have rigorous debates about wide ranging issues, then to find a ways to come to a consensus about how to tackle those issues. As it stands now we can have a rigorous debate but unless one party controls all the levers of power no action can be taken substantively.  A third "moderate" party would force the two opposed parties to find areas of consensus.
1.13.1. Pro: There is a political party that can do exactly that, the [International Logic Party](http://gofundme.com/egora-ilp23). The ILP can actually create a consensus in a diverse populace because it actually takes input from that populace, instead of feeding them established positions on issues.
1.13.2. Con: A strong third party would only exacerbate the problem described here.  With three major parties, it would be even less likely that one party would have the ability to make substantive changes.
1.13.2.1. Con: The reason for slow progress is the two parties blocking each other and not making the majority.
1.13.2.1.1. Pro: A third party would be able to switch sides to be able to create majorities.
1.14. Pro: Democracy by its nature sets no limits on how leaders or their support organizations structure themselves. To suggest that because 'this is the way we've always done it' is antithetical to the Western Democratic Ideal. Neither party comes close to representing my views on fiscally or socially responsible leadership. To legislate that there can be only two parties representing Americans is an idea that the Donald Trumps of the world dream of; it serves only those in power.
1.14.1. Con: There are no attempts to legislate having only two parties.
1.14.1.1. Con: Both the Republicans and Democrats are guilty of gerrymandering. These legislative efforts would suggest that each party stacks their own deck, continuing a binary system of ultimatums.
1.15. Con: In nearly all cases, modern societies coalesce into two general, opposing factions, regardless of the organizations involved. The presence of a third major party in the U.S. wouldn't change that propensity.

Instead, it may be beneficial to deemphasize the role parties play within our system. It would open the possibility of a stronger moderate element and could potentially mitigate the most polarizing aspects of our political discourse
1.15.1. Con: It's merely the "Winner-Takes-All' approach to elections in the US that demands that voters consolidate into broad parties.

Parliamentary or Proportional Representation systems around the world demonstrate that multiple parties form and can add unique voices to the discussion when electoral systems are structured differently.
1.15.2. Con: The main profit, of a third party, would be an end to blockades in the houses.
1.15.3. Con: Most countries have multiple parties that prove this statement false.
1.15.4. Pro: [First Past the Post](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-past-the-post_voting) \(the voting system used in the US\) almost inevitably tends towards a strong two party system.
1.16. Pro: They provide a way to protest the status quo.
1.16.1. Pro: Yes. And, there is no better way to do that than through direct public expression in the International Logic Party.
1.16.2. Con: A moderate third party would reinforce the status quo.
1.17. Con: Coming from a political system that has a lot of micro parties, democracy is disjointed in order to appeal to would-be power makers when major parties are unable to form a majority government. While they do offer a balance, overall their status as micro parties allows them to wield more power than they are capable of doing under limited platforms.
1.17.1. Con: From the perspective of a nation state with a lot of parties and different governments, micro parties allow the spreading of power to truly represent it's citizens. Whilst it is far less efficient than the two party rule, two party rule enables the party with the most power to essentially run the whole country for the term, whilst smaller parties must co-operate to gain majority votes in a parliament.
1.17.1.1. Con: The U.S. congress has recently had its most ineffective years to date within the last administration.
1.18. Con: A strong moderate political party is infeasible.
1.18.1. Pro: A third party candidate would never get enough electoral votes. If the election then went to the House of Representatives, the existing two parties would never vote for the third party candidate.
1.18.1.1. Con: This is unrelated to the thesis. The main claim is asking whether a third party is needed, not whether a third party has a chance in the existing two party system.
1.18.1.2. Con: This argument misses the point of the original statement. If third party candidates cannot succeed in the electoral system, -and- we sorely need a third party, then we face the additional problem of an ineffective democracy. The inefficacy of a nation's democracy does not absolve it of the need for a strong moderate party.
1.18.1.2.1. Pro: The U.S. definitely needs a third party also to open up the borders between parties. As long as the electoral college exists a strong third power won't exist since voting for a party that is going to lose in your district anyway is pretty much wasting your vote.
1.18.1.3. Con: Third party candidates frequently win state and local elections. Additionally, there have been federal legislators not affiliated with the Democrat or Republican parties. These trends demonstrate the possibility that third party candidates may get elected to office.
1.18.1.4. Con: Third political parties have won elections in the past, including the election of President Lincoln.
1.18.1.5. Pro: Your comment is very true in fact there already are different parties than the Democrats and the Republican in the U.S. but the main problem is that the electoral college won't let any other party into a government position at least in our day and age. Thus they aren't really competitive.
1.18.2. Pro: A third political party would not have funds and other resources to compete against Republicans and Democrats.
1.18.2.1. Pro: There are already a bunch of third parties but without a change in voting rules and campaignfinancing they don´t stand a chance. Another third party wouldn´t change that. It would be better to push an already existing, established third party to a point where it becomes obvious that we need to shift from a majority voting system to a proportional.
1.18.2.2. Con: This statement misses the point of the original post. Whether a third party is feasible is a different question. This original post asks whether it is needed. If it is needed, and a third party is not feasible, then we face the additional problem of an ineffective democracy. This does not invalidate the need.
1.18.3. Con: Absolutely not true.  The system proposed by the [International Logic Party](http://gofundme.com/egora-ilp23) is completely feasible.
1.18.4. Pro: The media would not report on third parties equally and candidates from the third party would be unlikely to get as much public acknowledgement.
1.18.4.1. Con: The [International Logic Party](http://gofundme.com/egora-ilp23) doesn't need media attention.  It is a true grassroots democracy.  If it has the support of a small critical mass of people, it will spread to all the people. Thats because the ILP gives people real power, like no other party.
1.18.4.2. Con: This statement misses the point of the original post. Whether a third party is feasible is a different question. This original post asks whether it is needed. If it is needed, and a third party is not feasible, then we face the additional problem of an ineffective democracy. This does not invalidate the need.
1.18.4.3. Pro: Even if people are able to establish a strong third party, without media support and attention, it will be difficult for such a party to gain momentum or have a chance in key elections.
1.18.4.3.1. Pro: The [International Logic Party](http://gofundme.com/egora-ilp23) can get around this problem because it truly empowers people.  And people will in return build up the ILP.
1.18.4.4. Pro: The Commission on Presidential Debates requires candidates to reach 15% in select polls before allowing a candidate in the debates.[abcnews.go.com](http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/15-magic-number-party-presidential-candidates-gary-johnson/story?id=41149669)
1.18.5. Con: The third parties exist. Their inability to gather campaign support is relative to the problem of the government being inadequately organized and separation of powers related to the specific issues of social organization that forms the principle of the political activity. The solution is to reorganize the government from top to bottom. [United States Fourth Continental Congress](https://www.kialo.com/united-states-fourth-continental-congress-18410?sidebar=notifications.discussion)
1.18.6. Pro: There lacks a definition of moderate.
1.18.7. Pro: The [first-past the post](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-past-the-post_voting) system discourages third parties.
1.18.7.1. Con: This statement misses the point of the original post. Whether a third party is feasible is a different question. This original post asks whether it is needed. If it is needed, and a third party is not feasible, then we face the additional problem of an ineffective democracy. This does not invalidate the need.
1.18.7.2. Pro: The republican and the democratic party are both extremely moderate, what america needs is a different voting system that doesn't discriminate between parties based on their size and influence but on the opininons the people have of them, such as [The Condorcet Method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Condorcet_method).
1.18.8. Pro: Republicans and Democrats will never allow another party to encroach on their territory.
1.18.8.1. Con: The [International Logic Party](http://gofundme.com/egora-ilp23) can undermine the major parties with or without their permission. People can belong to the ILP while still voting for the major parties, until the major party candidates are demanded to also represent themselves through the ILP for the purposes of honesty and transparency.
1.18.8.2. Con: This statement misses the point of the original post. Whether a third party is feasible is a different question. This original post asks whether it is needed. If it is needed, and a third party is not feasible, then we face the additional problem of an ineffective democracy. This does not invalidate the need.
1.18.8.3. Pro: When a third party's demands become popular enough, they are appropriated by one or both of the major parties and the third party disappears.
1.18.8.3.1. Con: It is impossible for that to happen with the [International Logic Party](http://gofundme.com/egora-ilp23).  The major parties will never appropriate the system used by the ILP, but the ILP can appropriate the voters and positions of the major parties.