Discussion Title: The U.S. should make at least one amendment to make it easier for more than two parties to be successful.

1. The U.S. should make at least one amendment to make it easier for more than two parties to be successful.
1.1. Con: Too many parties increases the risk of a minority radical party sneaking away with the win.
1.1.1. Con: There are ways that we can set limits in the constitution to prevent an excessive number of parties. Instead of a simple majority \(51%\), require something like a 15% minimum so that only the strongest seven parties have a chance.
1.1.2. Con: Trump was elected which suggests that fairly radical people can already be elected.
1.1.3. Con: This is only true if we stick with a single district plurality voting system, and abandoning a plurality voting system is generally understood to be the only way to establish a stable multi-party system. That is the amendment that would make it easier \(though many offices could be changed by law, no amendment needed\).
1.2. Con: It is more difficult for the public to remain informed and engaged when there are more parties and candidates to follow and learn about the policies of.
1.2.1. Pro: This may well mean that the majority of people just continue to identify with one of the two major parties and always vote for them and their candidates.
1.3. Pro: More successful parties would contribute to better policies.
1.3.1. Pro: It would decrease the drastic shifts in policies as each party would not feel compelled to undo all that the previous party did.
1.3.2. Pro: A multiparty system would encourage flexibility within the parties so they can more quickly respond to changes.
1.3.3. Pro: Parties will not simply have to be in direct opposition to each other. This allows parties to take more nuanced and specific stances on issues.
1.4. Con: There would be an increase in ties and stalemates.
1.4.1. Con: The U.S. government already has contingency plans to handle ties and stalemates.
1.4.2. Con: It would be easy to add more contingency plans to handle ties and stalemates if we need them.
1.5. Pro: People would have more choices including more moderate, centrist choices as opposed to only two extremes.
1.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.3.
1.5.2. Pro: Duality is victim to any "good vs. bad" fallacies.
1.6. Pro: The government would be more democratic as power would not be concentrated to only a few people. Less chance of becoming a dictatorship or oligarchy.
1.7. Pro: A two party system encourages candidates to tear each other down while a multiparty system encourages candidates to focus on their own strengths.
1.7.1. Con: Candidates will still aim to tear down others in order to take them out of the competition.
1.7.2. Con: Candidates may engage in negative campaigns towards other candidates in order to get media attention, which will be more difficult with more people to cover.