Discussion Title: The Necessity of Suffering

1. Suffering is a necessary for a life to be successful/well-lived.
1.1. Con: The apotheosis of suffering as a necessary part of meaningful life is a bourgeoisie justification of class inequality. This thesis is just another way that privileged members of society can normalize injustice.
1.1.1. Con: The fact that it is used by the upper classes to justify injustice is not evidence that it is not true. Asceticism is a serious philosophy in some cases used to overcome suffering.
1.2. Pro: Suffering builds character.
1.2.1. Pro: Absurd Question, nonetheless, Nietzsche best captures the logic of suffering when he counselled: "what doesn't kill you, makes you stronger"
1.2.2. Con: Suffering builds a stronger character, not necessarily a better one \(nor a more valid one\).
1.2.3. Pro: The ability and willingness to suffer on behalf of someone else is a virtue, seeking to pass on suffering to others is a vice.
1.3. Pro: Without suffering, you can't experience real happiness/pleasure.
1.3.1. Con: It is possible to imagine a person that hasn't really deeply "suffered" in the general sense but at the same time can be very happy.
1.3.2. Pro: Suffering makes a person value pleasure more.
1.3.3. Pro: Pleasure and suffering are two sides of the same coin. One does not exist without the other.
1.3.3.1. Pro: Both suffering and happiness are necessary to having a balanced life.
1.3.3.1.1. Pro: If you look upon the Eastern principle of 'Yin' and 'Yang', it says the harmony is achieved when both the good and the evil are in check. In a similar way if one is happiness then the other should be suffering. Even the whole universe works in this way, where the positive energy of the stars is being cancelled out by the negative energy of the gravity. It is almost the rule or law of the cosmos that an entity should be balanced through the positive and negative scale
1.3.3.1.2. Pro: Life is all about balance. We can't always/only be happy or sad. That's what a full life is about, so denying either could cost something. It doesn't mean that you have to strive to have one or other, it just means that if you actually Live, do what it needs to be done or what you are able to, both will appear through out your path. Resisting either will cause you frustration and create new problems or worsen existing ones.
1.3.3.1.2.1. Con: The view of a life without suffering being unachievable at the moment does not discard such possibility in the future and/or in concrete cases.
1.3.4. Con: Although both pleasure and suffering require each other to exist, the presence of pleasure does not necessarily involve the presence of suffering.
1.3.5. Pro: Suffering is necessary for making the life worthwhile and yielding any fruitful result, after all what is the meaning of life if you don't get out of your comfort zone and push your boundaries so you can achieve what you desire.
1.4. Con: The concept of a "successful life" or a "well-lived life" do not make sense as it depends on the subjective view of each individual.
1.5. Con: As individuals, we seek pleasure and try to avoid suffering. Looking for suffering in order to improve our life creates an interesting paradox which makes us question the true nature of both concepts.
1.6. Pro: A certain level of suffering - whether that be emotional or physical - is almost impossible to avoid in a human lifetime.
1.6.1. Con: Suffering is very difficult to avoid and is present everywhere, anytime. But that does not make it necessary.
1.6.2. Pro: You don't have to live on the streets or be beaten half to death in order to experience the antithesis of joy. Suffering to you, is simply the worst thing you've ever been through, and everyone has one of those. So yes, suffering is necessary for a life to be well-lived, because there isn't a life lived that hasn't experienced it.
1.7. Pro: No worthwhile success or achievement is won without suffering, so suffering is necessary.
1.7.1. Pro: We often tend to value more achievements which have been costful to obtain.
1.7.2. Con: Many achievements can be obtained through passion and dedication and be very valued for it. That does not involve suffering in any form.
1.7.2.1. Con: Just because you are passionate about something doesn't make the process involved in realizing it any less grueling or painful. Working 60 hours a week will never not cause suffering in some aspect of your life, even if its on a project you're very passionate about.
1.7.3. Pro: Without a stumble man would not walk.
1.7.4. Con: If you're suffering, your life can't be successful. Suffering is characteristic of a failing life, not a successful one.
1.7.4.1. Con: People can suffer for reasons outside of their control \(natural disasters, disease, etc\). Surely we should only include voluntary characteristics in the evaluation of a "successful life".
1.7.4.2. Con: Success and failure are terms which do not make sense when speaking about life itself. Life does not have a purpose, and therefore you cannot fail nor success in it.
1.7.5. Pro: If you define a successful life as one where a person has developed a deep sense of inner worthiness, then suffering is almost certainly a pre-requisite - without challenges to overcome there is no opportunity to prove to yourself your own worthiness, no chance to build connections with others through empathy, and no sense of meaning through overcoming obstacles. Absolutely necessary, though too much is as harmful as too little.
1.8. Pro: Suffering is necessary to retain a sense of humanity.
1.8.1. Pro: Suffering can be seen as an absence of happiness; but if this universe only consisted of happiness then humans would assume life is good, having a sense of illogical pride that we are something above human, making us less human in the first place.
1.9. Con: Nobody deserves to suffer.
1.9.1. Con: We often argue that people deserve pleasure, reward, etc.; suffering is just another side of the same coin.
1.9.2. Pro: From a neutral point of view, pleasure and suffering are opposites, being pleasure good and suffering bad. Given the choice, everyone will choose pleasure, because it is good in itself. Not by mistake is heaven \(pleasure\) for the good and hell \(suffering\) for the bad.
1.9.2.1. Con: [Studies](https://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-28130690) show that people prefer pain to boredom. Good people prefer a painful drama to a boring pleasure.
1.9.3. Con: People deserve to suffer for the mistakes they make.
1.9.3.1. Con: People do not commit mistakes on purpose, so making them suffer for it is not ethical.
1.9.3.2. Pro: According to [the law of retaliation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eye_for_an_eye), the punishment must be similar to the damage caused.
1.9.3.3. Con: No one is entitled to decide what makes a mistake and what not.
1.9.3.3.1. Con: If authority figures such as educators, parents and legal judges, whose function includes deciding what constitutes a mistake, stopped exercising that function society would be chaotic.
1.9.3.4. Pro: If people can avoid suffering for their actions, they might come to believe that their actions have no consequences.
1.9.3.5. Con: Whether or not someone deserves to suffer for their mistakes has no bearing on how successful/well-lived their life is.
1.9.3.6. Pro: People who commit crimes deserve to suffer.
1.10. Con: Suffering is pointless, it just makes people resentful.
1.10.1. Con: People are able to grow with suffering, e.g. in sport one needs to suffer to push one's limit.
1.10.2. Con: People who constantly complain about their lack of comfort and refuse to take on a reasonable amount of suffering cause others to become resentful.
1.10.3. Con: Pleasure is pointless, it just makes people weak.
1.10.4. Con: Suffering teaches us what to avoid.
1.10.5. Pro: To suffer is to give in to the negative events and aspects of a persons life. Successful people choose to exercise their will to overcome such negative aspects and turn them into personal growth and ultimately to a good life. Pain is inevitable - suffering is optional.
1.10.5.1. Con: Suffering is not always optional. A person's will is not always enough for not to give into negative events. It is very common for negative things to overcome a person and make him suffer against his obvious will. One cannot attain suffering as a "lack of will".
1.10.5.2. Con: Overcoming suffering is empowering, but it only serves to avoid it in the future. One wouldn't go through suffering to stop suffering if it can be evaded in the first place.
1.10.5.3. Pro: -> See 1.10.4.
1.10.6. Pro: Suffering brings you down and can damage your psyche till the point of depression and/or suicide.
1.10.6.1. Con: If someone is suffering to the point that they're suicidal, then that's indicative of an excess. All that is necessary for a successful life is moderate/occasional suffering; not absolute, psychologically crippling suffering.