Discussion Title: The fewer languages there are, the better the world is

1. The fewer languages there are, the better the world is.
1.1. Con: Language is what sets human beings apart from other intelligent systems such as animals and computers. The more languages we preserve the more culturally diverse are we and better our chances to survive and evolve.
1.1.1. Con: Computers generally run on universal programming languages that are merely given different language inputs and outputs via interfaces. One of their strengths is, in fact, that they run on a very small number of universal languages.
1.2. Pro: Interpretation is a problem. Sometimes good ideas, old texts and even part of human history are understood incorrectly because of the efforts that people need to do to translate something. When you are not reading something in the original language that it was written take for sure that something must be "missing" in the content
1.3. Con: I think that we need different languages, because without our language we aren't ourselves. Our language is half of who we are. Also, whenever someone talks a different language you don't understand, you say to yourself that you want to learn what they had said that is what happened to me, I now know 6 different languages
1.4. Pro: Information accessible at the same time for everybody is a huge advantage for humanity. Today, many people need to wait for scientific reports to be translated before they can access the info.
1.5. Con: languages is what makes us unique, and special, it is the language used by our ancestors. One can simply learn the languages and stop being so lazy
1.6. Con: People usually are very attached to they culture and their language. Force them to change to a universal language would not be received well.
1.6.1. Pro: Forcing people to speak a certain language would not be possible, only if that language would be extremely easy to learn. A language like that could not convey complex ideas. See: Newspeak in Orwell's 1984.
1.6.2. Con: Reducing the number of languages does not have to involve force. It could be a gradual process through which new generations are slowly introduced to a universal language without force.
1.7. Pro: It would be easier to meet people from different parts of the world. Sometimes the only reason why people do not start romantic or business relationships is because of the difficult in communication even when they have similar values, ideas and willing to do so.
1.7.1. Con: In modern times this is hardly an issue anymore as more and more people speak at least conversational English.
1.8. Con: Fewer languages would result in jobs \(translators for example\).
1.8.1. Con: Jobs should not exist for the sake of existing when a more efficient and comfortable world is within reach.
1.9. Con: Cultural diversity is a beautiful thing. And language is a basic ingredient for that cultural diversity to develop.
1.9.1. Pro: If we lose a language, it is a big cultural loss.
1.9.1.1. Con: For most people who do not speak that particular language, the loss of a language does not result in any loss in terms of personal experience.
1.9.2. Con: Much of human diversity would be more accessible with fewer languages, for examples because misunderstandings would be less common and learning would be easier.
1.10. Pro: Education would be upgraded in an unprecedented way if this happens.
1.10.1. Pro: Imagine the time that would be saved in translations, or how a scientific paper that is published would be understand immediately by everyone interested, how faster information would travel and be spread.
1.10.2. Pro: The best practices in education would be easily adaptable to a new country, the best teachers or lessons could be broadcasted through internet and be accessible by everyone
1.11. Pro: Most systems would benefit from this. Some examples: Communication, foreign politics, global access to information/education, technology development, etc