Discussion Title: The 67-Year War: Should the USA and North Korea sign a peace treaty?

1. Should the USA and North Korea sign a peace treaty?
1.1. Con: A peace treaty without parallel denuclearization would take away a leverage of the West without gaining much.
1.1.1. Pro: Militarilly the US and its partners are clearly stronger than NK and do not have to fear an attack. The goal of having a peace treaty from their side is therefore not really militarilly motivated.
1.2. Con: A peace treaty between US and North Korea potentially increases US-China tensions
1.2.1. Pro: If the US and NK have peace treaty, this might lead to a significant withdrawal of US forces, which in turn increases the Chinese influence over the region. This has the potential to increase raise tensions, if China for example engages with US allies in the Pacific area.[\(Expert Interview with James Hoare in November 2016\)](http://www.nknews.org \(paid access necessary\))
1.2.1.1. Pro: With a lesser US presence in the Pacific China might feel even more encourage to push their claims in the South China Sea.
1.2.1.1.1. Pro: China is already pushing claims and creating islands out of nowhere to control and mantain vigilance on what calls "its own chinese sea". 

If US Forces would leave Korea, nothing would stop China to increase influence in the Republic of Korea, and trying to fuse the two together.
1.2.1.2. Con: Through lesser US forces in the region, the likelihood of a direct clash between US and Chinese vessels/other forces is reduced and thereby also tensions could reduce.
1.2.2. Con: An increase of regional stability would hardly undermine US-China relations as both countries have an interest in it.
1.3. Con: A peace treaty should be the end of the peace progress rather than the beginning.
1.3.1. Pro: Before signing a treaty, the disputes between both parties need to be clarified. Only then a peace treaty would make sense and have an impact.
1.3.2. Con: The past decades of truce de-facto mark a peace process that could be concluded by a treaty.
1.4. Pro: A peace treaty will create a higher degree of certainty between the stakeholders
1.4.1. Con: The results of a peace treaty depend 100% to the content of the same. If the contract does not regulate the nuclear situation sufficiently, tensions and irritations will remain high.
1.4.2. Pro: Compared to a rather lose armistice agreement a proper peace treaty has clear legal implications and obligations and would make attacks, i.e. breach of the treaty, less likely.[\(Expert interview with Tristan Webb\)](http://www.nknews.org)
1.5. Pro: A peace treaty between the US and North Korea should involve South Korea.
1.5.1. Pro: A peace treaty between the US and North Korea should pave the way for a successful Korean unification process and therefore South Korea needs to be involved as soon as possible in the process.
1.5.2. Con: The discussions leading to a peace treaty will already be extraordinarily complicated and involving a third party will bring even more issues in the discussions.
1.5.3. Con: If South Korea is involved, North Korea might feel that its role it so too influential and call off the whole discussion.
1.5.4. Con: North Korea wants to be treated as a regular state in the international political arena. Therefore it wants to discuss 1:1 with the United States. Discussions between South and North Korea should therefore be separated from US-North Korea talks.
1.5.5. Pro: Even if South Korea is not be a signee of the treaty, its involvement in the process can pose a great chance to bring both sides back to discussions.
1.6. Pro: A peace treaty between the US and North Korea is economically very promising.
1.6.1. Pro: The North Korean economy is \(very\) slowly allowing for some reforms to open up.  When the political relations are normalized, it can  offer interesting investment opportunities.
1.6.2. Pro: North Korea is a domestic market with 25 million potential consumers which can be an immense new demand on the global market.
1.6.3. Pro: US and other Western companies could engage in economic partnerships with North Korean companies to distribute Know-How which would help the North Korean economy to flourish and to consecutively create a middle class.
1.6.4. Con: The North Korean economy is still too far behind to allow for interesting business ventures.
1.6.5. Con: If a peace treaty allows for more foreign investments in the country, this can endanger the development of an own North Korean business sector. With too many incoming foreign companies, the market will be dominated by foreign companies and disallow North Korean businesses to operate successfully.
1.7. Pro: A peace treaty would rob the North Korean regime the portrail of the US as the agressor
1.8. Con: An intervention is needed in the system which North Korean people are subjugated to. The US' strong military force is needed for change.
1.8.1. Con: More innocent civilians would die as a result of that. Offensive military action against a righteous country would be stepping lower than the DPRK itself.
1.8.2. Con: Democracy cannot be imposed at the point of a gun. We learned that in Afghanistan, Vietnam, and many other points in past US foreign policy.
1.9. Con: A peace treaty should rather be the end of a peace process and not the first step
1.10. Con: North Korea is incredibly oppressive towards its own people, and to associate and make peace with its leaders would go against the principles that the USA should stand for.
1.10.1. Pro: According to a [2014 UN report on North Korea](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/11/world/asia/north-korea-human-rights.html), crimes committed by government “entail extermination, murder, enslavement, torture, imprisonment, rape, forced abortions and other sexual violence, persecution on political, religious, racial and gender grounds, the forcible transfer of populations, the enforced disappearance of persons and the inhumane act of knowingly causing prolonged starvation”.
1.11. Pro: A peace treaty and its discussion before-hand would bring all stakeholders back to the table.
1.11.1. Pro: The process of discussing the details of the treaty poses a great opportunity for all stakeholders to engage in talks again.
1.11.2. Con: Several stakeholders would not necessarily be part of any negotiations about a peace treaty, for example Russia, Japan and even South Korea.
1.11.3. Con: Like previous promising talks this talks however could be called off again, which would leave an even more pessimistic outlook for further disucussions.
1.12. Con: A peace treaty would elevate North Korea's status in the international political arena and boost its nuclear ambitions.
1.12.1. Con: North Korea's nuclear ambitions are purely defensive. Any overture - like a peace treaty - that lessens the threat of an invasion of N. Korea would diminish their need for nuclear weapons.
1.13. Pro: A peace treaty would reduce the purpose of maintaining strong army's on the peninsula and its region.
1.13.1. Pro: Because the parties are still officially in war, incl. between the two Korean states, the US has a purpose to maintain its military and naval forces.
1.13.2. Con: The state of war is only an excuse for the US to maintain its strong presence. The true reason is to balance the Chinese influence.[\(Expert interview with Kevin Gray\)](http://www.nknews.org)