Discussion Title: The Elder Scrolls Series has good writing.

1. The Elder Scrolls Series has good writing.
1.1. Con: Questlines in Skyrim especially tend to either give you things you haven't really worked for \(College of Winterhold\) or force you down a certain role playing path that completely contradicts Skyrim being a "role playing game" \(Theive's guild forcing you to swear your allegiance to Nocturnal\)
1.2. Pro: Many themes in both politics and religion both show up in TES but are not stated to represent the real world. Take the Stormcloack rebellion for example. Religious differences are a tool used by the Thalmor to weaken the Empire and thus in the long run make defeat easier. In contrast the Summerset Isles are a developed civilization with wealth to share among the people for good health, education, safety which leads to a younger class wanting opportunity and older class being authoritarian.
1.3. Pro: The Elder Scrolls universe is able to provide for six different [The Elder Scrolls games](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Elder_Scrolls) with different story telling.
1.3.1. Con: Just because Bethesda has produced six Elder Scrolls games does not necessarily mean that the writing in them is good.
1.4. Con: The inability of playable characters to vocally communicate with NPCs detracts from the games' writing.
1.4.1. Pro: When playable characters are not given speaking voices but NPCs are, then talking to other characters in-game inevitably feels less like a conversation and more like a monologue. This means that character interactions in the game not only feel less personal, but also less realistic.
1.4.1.1. Con: When a set voice is added to the player character of the protagonist\(s\) you play it limits the amount of dialogue options for interacting with NPCs as more time in the recording studio would be needed to record these lines. Not only that but when your character has a voice you have no control over the pace of the speech or the tone limiting role play in a 'role playing game'. Perhaps AI generated voices will come out to counteract this in the future and is the new tech rumored to be in TES6
1.5. Pro: The Elder Scrolls universe has many side stories filled with unique people and thier ups and downs
1.6. Pro: Bethesda does a great job with environmental storytelling. Many times you will find items placed in a certain way that tell how events went down in the past
1.7. Pro: In addition to the great concept art by Bethesda's artists, much of the architecture and items of various regions define the rich cultures of Tamriel
1.8. Pro: Many books in TES vividly describe the world of the Elder Scrolls adding richness and depth to the lore of the series.
1.9. Con: Lore between games is often Vauge at best and inconsistent at worst
1.10. Con: The main story of TES games tends to be boring and wastes it's potential
1.10.1. Pro: They are too long.
1.10.1.1. Pro: People prefer short and impacting stories, rather than long and elaborated ones.
1.11. Con: When new games come out often times old, established lore \(in the case of Skyrim and the old pantheon mentioned in Morrowind not being consistent of the game\) is overwritten and not represented due to choices by the newer dev team