Discussion Title: The rich are more responsible to environmental damages than the poor

1. The rich are more responsible for environmental damages than the poor.
1.1. Con: Poverty forces one to venture into more extensive agriculture by clearing marginal land for cultivation.
1.1.1. Pro: This will expose the soil to destructive environmental forces. The vegetation cover is loosed and will lead to more rapid erosion of the top soil needed for cultivation
1.1.2. Pro: Some animals are forced to flee and others will extinguish
1.1.3. Pro: This will also lead to air and water pollution leading to more environmental hazard
1.1.4. Con: The poor, by definition, don't have the funds to acquire substantial land masses to farm. Rather, it is typically large corporations developing land for their endeavours which causes significant land clearing.
1.2. Con: Poverty can also lead to a rapid growing population, it means that there will be more people who will exploit the environment
1.2.1. Pro: As the population increase, there is the need for more houses
1.2.2. Con: most of the houses in which low income groups live \(and often build for themselves\) use recycled or reclaimed materials and little use of cement and other materials with a high energy input. Low income households have too few capital goods to represent much of a draw on the world’s finite reserves of metals and other non-renewable resources
1.2.3. Pro: For instance, where low-income settlements have developed around reservoirs into which they dump wastes.
1.2.4. Con: these people may not have access to health institutions and will require family members/community members to take care of them in their old age.
1.2.5. Con: In developing countries mortaility rates are much higher, and at much younger ages - even children/adolescences
1.2.6. Pro: For instance, where low-income settlements have developed on slopes which, when cleared for housing, contribute to serious soil erosion.
1.3. Con: The poor, especially the rural poor, exclusively depends on biomass fuel.
1.3.1. Pro: The burning of such substances causes air pollution especially in door pollution to which 400- 700 million people, mostly women and children are exposed to every year
1.3.2. Pro: Smoke and fumes from indoors contribute to a lot of child dead and causes more smoke related diseases than cigarette smoking
1.3.3. Con: That dependence on fuel leads back to the rich. The reason poor people don't have more access to sustainable energy is that the rich owners of fossil fuel companies lobby the government and keep sustainable energy from becoming mainstream and accessible.
1.4. Pro: The poor are struggling with acquiring basic standards of living and rights. They do not have the privilege of also making eco-friendly choices.
1.5. Pro: The rich are bigger contributors to the problem of climate change. As such, they are more responsible.
1.5.1. Pro: The world's [richest 10%](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2015/dec/02/worlds-richest-10-produce-half-of-global-carbon-emissions-says-oxfam) produce a disproportionate 50% of global carbon emissions.
1.5.2. Pro: The top industries that are most damaging to the environment are [oil and fashion](https://www.alternet.org/environment/its-second-dirtiest-thing-world-and-youre-wearing-it), which are primarily used by the middle- upper class.
1.5.3. Pro: Wealthy individuals are able to buy more and consume more food, products and recourse, and have a "more" mentality.
1.6. Con: The [Environmental Kuznets Curve](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuznets_curve#Environmental_Kuznets_curve) suggests that environmental degradation worsens as an economy develops, until per capita income reaches a high enough point.
1.6.1. Pro: before the turning point, there is a steady increase of environmental degradation as the income per capita increases, which could end up causing long term or permanent damage that can be undo/reversed
1.7. Pro: The rich have more posibilities to make an active change for a better environment
1.7.1. Pro: Rich people often control or deeply influence the governments that regulate big business.
1.7.1.1. Pro: Past CEOs of large corporations have found themselves at the top of the government regulation organization.
1.7.1.2. Pro: Rich corporations and individuals can lobby the governments, thereby buying votes in congress.
1.7.2. Pro: Rich people build factories, mines, powerplants and other big businesses that have big effects on our environment, so they are the ones with the power to decide how these will run.
1.7.2.1. Pro: While the common people use these products, they have no power to regulate the environmental impact of the companies as they don't decide how electricity is produced or what tupe type of cars are made. They don't get to see what they are doing with waste and what kind of smoke stacks they use.
1.7.2.1.1. Con: Consumers have the power to influence producers' choices by choosing to purchase items that are environmentally advantageous.
1.7.2.1.1.1. Pro: Demand simply responds to supply to whatever customers buy the most is what will be produced the most.
1.7.2.1.1.2. Con: Sustainable choices are often more expensive because environmentally damaging companies still dominate the market. Not everyone can afford a hybrid car or sustainable food choices. There is no choice at all for consumers who barely scrape by.
1.8. Con: The impoverished outnumber the rich and can thus lead to a greater change.