Discussion Title: The source of all suffering in humans are their attachments.

1. The source of all suffering in humans are their attachments.
1.1. Con: This is only accurate to people who live in stable environments. In the case of war, starvation, oppression, discrimination, abusive relationships, and more this is not true.
1.1.1. Con: There are people who in spite of their harsh situation maintained a positive attitude, considering the burden laid upon them. It shows that detachment reduces suffering even under conditions one would expect to cause a lot of suffering.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Take the example of [Viktor Frankl](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man%27s_Search_for_Meaning) - a survivor of a Nazi concentration camp. Although exercising a great attachment to his hopes, he managed to detach from the pain and abuse inflicted upon him and contemplate the meaning of life and love in which he found bliss and salvation.
1.1.2. Con: There is no perfect picture or stable environment living opportunity for an extended period of time. Suffering is guaranteed for the man who starves just as it is for the man who never stops eating. The man in war suffers just like the man suffers who is at peace.
1.2. Pro: Unmet expectations in interpersonal relationships \(hurt attachments\) are a common source of frustration and a frequent cause of couple and family breakups.
1.2.1. Pro: Even if they don't cause a full breakup, they cause a huge amount of stress and pressure that is detrimental to mental health.
1.2.2. Pro: Humans often lack the ability to express their emotions correctly. This leads to a situation where expectations and desires cannot be adequately communicated.
1.2.2.1. Pro: Language, a tool to express emotions through words, is limited to a few expressions when emotional states can be much more complex.
1.2.2.1.1. Con: There are many different types of language. Body language express emotions and allows people to communicate often without a verbal word spoke. Written language emotions are expressed with grammar.
1.2.2.1.2. Con: Body language and personal conduct are the most impactful expressions that people possess. Words have no meaning without definition to compare them to. This is why "actions have always spoke louder than words"
1.2.2.2. Pro: Emotions and desires are often linked to things one perceives as shameful. Being honest about shameful things is difficult for the ashamed.
1.2.2.2.1. Pro: A person might find joy in attending executions but can't express it because it's not socially regarded as 'enjoyable activity'.
1.2.2.2.2. Pro: In a relationship one partner might desire certain sexual practices but are afraid to mention them to their partner.
1.2.2.3. Pro: Buddhist philosophy teaches practice of mindfulness and self-awareness on the present moment for sharpening expression of emotion with greater accuracy. [Mindfulness explination and benefits in buddhism](https://www.lionsroar.com/buddhist-teachings-on-mindfulness/)
1.2.2.4. Con: The ability to express emotions are concepts commonly viewed in every child. Social norms, culture, and others expectations enforce suppression of human emotion.
1.2.3. Con: Expecting our partners, friends, or family to not expect us to meet their reasonable expectations is unreasonable.
1.3. Pro: Outward approval makes us experience a thrill, while disapproval makes us feel low. Attachment to approval is thus like giving everyone a remote control to our satisfaction.
1.3.1. Pro: Inability to control our own self-approval minimizes the opportunities for self-awareness and mindfulness to grow. Being mindful and self-aware we are able to identify and reduce our suffering within.
1.3.2. Con: If one unattaches from all outward approval, then they cannot continue to learn this philosophy, which is being presented to them by outside sources. They would likely remain attached to many other things and their unattaching from approval will have been detrimental.
1.3.2.1. Con: One doesn't have to attach to the approval of the messenger to accept and heed the message \("Watch out!"\). Likewise, it is possible to learn without a teacher's approval \(video workshop of Anthony De Mello?\). Yes, we can continue to study this philosophy without an attachment to an outward approval.
1.4. Pro: According to the [second noble truth in Buddhist philosophy](https://www.buddhanet.net/e-learning/buddhism/bs-s04.htm), the source of suffering manifest from desires and ignorance. Desires consist of craving pleasure, material goods, and immortality; none can ever be satisfied. The ignorance aspect causing suffering stems from not being able to see the world as it actual is. This weak and undeveloped mind creates vices such as greed, envy, hate, and anger.
1.4.1. Con: Saying that someone should neither desire nor be ignorant is contradictory. Those who are ignorant and should not remain ignorant must desire knowledge.
1.4.2. Con: The noble truths in Buddhist philosophy necessarily advocate ego death, the destruction of subjective self-identity, and unpersoning the individual. This, while noble to some, can be also interpreted as cowardice and refusal to experience the "[thrownness](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thrownness)" of one's particular existence.
1.5. Pro: Attachment to achievement leads to never ending stress. In contrast, finding entertainment in doing, rather than achieving is relaxing and fulfilling.
1.5.1. Con: Devoting too much time, mindfulness, and energy to specific entertainment can be relaxing and fulfilling in ways that create negative outcomes and stress just as achievement will.
1.5.2. Con: Fulfillment needs to be "selfish selflessness" in order to be balanced, fulfilling, and permanent. If your outcome is not one of "selfish selflessness" then suffering will find that human.
1.6. Pro: With any sort of mournful grief or pain of loss, we can dive at the root cause of it - the attachment to what went missing.
1.6.1. Con: Sometime we mourn because another is grieving, and the elimination of our own attachments cannot relieve the grief of the other.
1.6.1.1. Con: Still, the root cause remains an attachment to what went missing, though it is chained and passed on.
1.7. Con: If someone attacks a victim, the attacker is the source of the victim's suffering, not the victim's attachment.
1.7.1. Con: It is the person's attachment to their valuables, their physical health, their dignity or their life that causes suffering. The attacker is merely the force breaking attachments. Thus even though the attacker is the reason for suffering, it is still caused by attachment. One not attached to whatever is being taken would not suffer.
1.8. Con: [Mentally ill](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mental_disorder) persons may suffer greatly and even though we would find attachments playing a big role in their suffering, ultimately it is their illness that is the source of their suffering.
1.8.1. Con: [Mentalization-based therapy](https://tavistockandportman.nhs.uk/care-and-treatment/treatments/mentalisation-based-therapy/) argues that the root of mental health issues is in the aggravation of interpersonal relationships, implying that the source of problems are, at heart, attachments.
1.9. Con: There are many other sources of suffering which have nothing to do with attachments.
1.9.1. Con: Almost no mental ills are felt in isolation. Physical problems are more immediately problematic, but mental are generally connected to our links with others.
1.9.2. Pro: Including starvation and disease.
1.9.3. Pro: Fear of suffering, and attempts to avoid suffering out of fear also cause of a lot of suffering. It is not just our attachments. Man's fear of painful feelings and sensations, fear of scarcity and loss, can all cause him to act in ways that ironically end up hurting himself and others as much or more than the pain being avoided. This can be through greed, addiction, even something passive like apathy to the plight of others.
1.9.3.1. Pro: Sadly, this illogical fear and attempts to avoid suffering create more suffering than what the original cause of suffering manifested from.
1.9.3.2. Con: Fear is another manifest of an attachment. If we fear death, we are attached to staying alive for instance. If we fear suffering, we're attached to being content, and so on.
1.9.4. Pro: Physical pain is very common and causes a lot of suffering.
1.9.4.1. Con: The attachment of ones ego and youth cause a lot of the pain associated with physical suffering people endure believing their elasticity attached with a younger body has not left them. Dad's attachment to his youth causes suffering when he breaks his hip water skiing for the first time in 15 years. "Just like riding a bike"
1.9.4.1.1. Con: Many children also face physical suffering as they naturally develop. They dont express attachment to their younger selves though. Children tend to want to grow up.
1.9.5. Pro: Because of human being an animal, one would expect this to apply to animals as well to some degree. Otherwise there would have to be some fundamental difference between human and animal suffering. And vice versa, if animals don't suffer only because of their attachments, then in humans, some suffering must come from sources other than attachments.
1.9.6. Pro: People can suffer when they become aware of others who are suffering.