Discussion Title: The stock corporation should be universally replaced by the worker cooperative.

1. The stock corporation should be universally replaced by the worker cooperative.
1.1. Con: The worker cooperative promotes democratic participation and education in running a business for the workers.
1.1.1. Pro: An economy based on democratically run businesses will better support a democratic politics, because citizens will learn how to act productively in a democratic system at their work places.  It will incentivize training democratic citizens, because businesses will need employees who know how to act productively in a democracy.  This will result in a more productive governmental democracy as well.
1.1.1.1. Con: It won't enhance government; it will degrade business leadership, though. This will result in business leadership slowly being replaced by ineffectual politicians who are good at winning votes but not so at administration.
1.1.1.2. Con: Democracy is the tyranny of the majority, and does not accurately reflect the best or most effective solutions to problems.
1.1.1.2.1. Pro: In a democracy 51% can make sweeping changes against the will of 49%.
1.1.2. Pro: An economy in which workers are the owners will incentivize better training in economics, business management, and finances. Since the workers are calling the shots, businesses will need a better educated work force. This means that more workers will have the tools necessary to start their own businesses, encouraging competition.
1.1.2.1. Con: You can learn everything you want to learn about economics, management, and finances at the click of a button, for free, any time, in the comfort of your home. Fact of the matter is people don't. Instead of trying to teach complex concepts to folks who couldn't care less, large corporations can take the easy route of internal propaganda. Something like Gilded Age era corporate governance.
1.1.3. Pro: Most workers are not educated to the level of economic and accounting knowledge required to make strategic business decisions.
1.1.3.1. Con: There are representative democratic models of worker cooperatives, where workers elect their board members to make strategic business decisions on their behalf \(presuming their elected board members have the expertise to do so\). If their board members don't fulfill their promises, by the next election cycle workers have an opportunity to elect new board members.
1.1.3.2. Con: An economy based on worker cooperatives would change the incentives around education and incentivize educating workers in these skills. This would leave them better equipped to start their own businesses and increase competition.
1.1.3.3. Con: Worker cooperations could hire people with economics skills and have them suggest suitable decisions.
1.1.3.4. Pro: The modern economy relies upon specialisation. Assuming specialists in other fields will find the time, money and motivation to become financially aware enough to make high scale strategic decisions is misguided.
1.1.3.5. Con: Neither is the average voter knowledgeable enough about economics/politics to cast a vote in a general election. Indeed, the principle of representative democracy does not require them to, they express consent for one option, or set of governing principles, which are then transformed into a governance strategy through state apparatus. We could extend this in to businesses, for example in laying out a medium-long term plan to vote for and mandating that elected executives face recall.
1.2. Con: The absence of a stock market would have serious consequences.
1.2.1. Pro: Stock markets are the best mechanism to make savings to investments. There's no moral problem in this.
1.2.1.1. Pro: The moral problem is when a traditional company has someone buy a majority of their stocks. That single entity now controls what happens in the company to create returns.  This means the majority shareholder will more than likely cut wages, benefits, and hours in the name of profit. Which will in turn reduce the quality of the business until they can cannibalize the company. This is what happened to "Toys R US". [usatoday.com](https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2018/04/08/amazon-didnt-kill-toys-r-us-wall-street-profiteers-did-column/491434002/)
1.2.2. Pro: Having no ability to invest in stocks will cause a rise in the price of other publicly traded goods, such as food.
1.2.2.1. Pro: Stock market allows the publicly traded companies to invest into optimising their supply chains and production costs, as well as to operate on a scale where they can better safeguard against fluctuations \(e.g. by purchasing futures on crucial supplies\). Without such economic tools, the costs of production and the risks would be higher and the companies would have to shift the burden onto the consumer by raising prices.
1.2.3. Pro: Without the stock market, there's no mechanism for retirement savings.
1.2.3.1. Con: Without equity financing and stock markets, banks return to their more traditional role of giving out business loans and collecting interest from them. Retirement savings could be placed in banks and collect higher interest rates.
1.2.3.1.1. Con: Returns on equity historically been noticeably higher than return on debt. Forcing pension funds to invest only in debt will lead to smaller returns and smaller pensions.
1.2.3.1.1.1. Con: Smaller returns and smaller pensions are an acceptable trade off for more equitable distributions of wealth, which could drastically reduce human suffering as it pertains to living in poverty, not being able to afford healthcare or high quality food, etc.
1.2.3.1.2. Con: Banks cannot pay interest if they cannot invest their funds and earn a profit on it.
1.2.3.1.2.1. Con: Banks can still make investments in this model. They just wouldn't be given legal rights of ownership of businesses they invest in. Also, there are other entities to invest in besides businesses \(e.g. government bonds\).
1.2.3.2. Con: Society could provide retirement through social security insurance and pensions.
1.2.3.2.1. Con: Social security, pensions, and other pay-as-you-go systems are pyramid schemes, and have horrible intergenerational equity. For example, you will never see a dime of what you paid into the social security system, notwithstanding the state's penchant for borrowing against it to fund unrelated programs.
1.2.3.2.2. Con: Inflation will reduce the size of funds when they cannot make capital gains.
1.2.3.2.2.1. Con: Inflation is a choice of the central bank.
1.2.3.3. Pro: Retirement funds often invest in companies, such as the [Government Pension Fund of Norway](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Government_Pension_Fund_of_Norway). Their investment opportunities would be limited.
1.2.4. Con: This is a non-sequitur: stock markets and worker coops are not inherently incompatible. Worker coops can and do raise capital by selling non-voting shares of their stock. See Equal Exchange for an example of this in the US.
1.3. Con: Capital investment is a voluntary event, driven by the perception of a risk/benefit ratio. Workers are legally able to organize businesses now as an alternative. The exclusion of access to stock based ownership by non-employees represents a government over-reach in concept, and an act of force based on political ideology.
1.4. Pro: Worker ownership encourages innovation, because worker owners directly benefit from the gains they create.
1.4.1. Con: Workers are often not those who are engaged in R&D.
1.4.2. Con: Workers have little incentive to innovate in areas that result in a loss of jobs, such as automation.
1.4.2.1. Con: Worker co-ops would still innovate and take advantage of automation. Co-ops would just use automation differently than how a traditional business would use automation. Co-ops would use automation to increase leisure time and lower working hours with the profit created by automation. This would in turn pay the workers more and give them more time with family/life. Traditional companies use automation to cut hours, pay less, and cut jobs. Making their workers jobless or barely sustaining.
1.5. Pro: Worker owned businesses are less likely to close factories and move them elsewhere, because those who work in the factories own the business.
1.5.1. Con: Factories would have to close if they can't compete with competitors from cheaper countries in a global market.
1.5.2. Con: Moving factories is not necessarily a bad thing; workers elsewhere need jobs, too. The rhetoric of "it's cheaper because there are fewer regulations" is a small part of the cost savings, but the main reason is because foreign workers ask for less and work more, i.e. are more competitive.
1.5.2.1. Con: This denies a legally available working class of their ability to provide for the nation, as well as themselves. By extension, you are also exploiting the labor of workers elsewhere. There are many moral and ethical issues with this.
1.6. Pro: Worker owned businesses are less likely to cause externalities in the communities they exist, because the owners have to live in those communities as well.
1.6.1. Con: All businesses generate externalities. The key is awareness of what those externalities are.
1.6.2. Con: Handling externalities cannot be left up to corporate governance. There is no substitute for government involvement.
1.6.2.1. Pro: Non-profits are notoriously unconcerned with externalities.
1.6.2.2. Con: This is not an argument about the handling of externalities to be left to corporations only, but rather an argument that there will be a lower incentive to create externalities to begin with.
1.6.3. Con: This implies that a number of companies would become smaller businesses, which in turn may translate into lower productivity, lower revenues and ultimately lower wages for the relevant workers. This hardly vindicates the idea of transforming stock companies into workers' cooperatives to the benefit of those workers.
1.6.3.1. Con: The parent claim does not necessarily imply that a number of coops that replace stock corporations would be small. Large worker coops, which exist today and have workers geographically dispersed, would be better suited to mitigate or prevent negative externalities from affecting communities where workers live because all of those workers would have a formal mechanism for handling such externalities. Workers are unlikely to want to harm themselves or their co-workers.
1.7. Con: Businesses that can't sell equity would struggle to raise capital and thus it would be harder to start a new business in an economy based only on worker cooperatives.
1.7.1. Con: Cooperative federations, such as the [Mondragon Corporation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mondragon_Corporation), for example, provide an alternative means for raising capital: individual cooperatives can join a cooperative federation to share capital and other resources.
1.7.2. Con: Worker coops can and do raise capital by selling stock of their company. Equal Exchange is one such coop that has done this using existing US SEC law. This approach allows coops to sell their stock to raise capital without granting ownership or voting rights to non-workers.[How Equal Exchange Aligns Our Capital with Our Mission](https://equalexchange.coop/how-equal-exchange-aligns-our-capital-with-our-mission)
1.7.3. Con: Governments, at all levels, can provide additional financing through publicly owned banks. In this way, communities can democratically decide what businesses they want to invest in.
1.7.4. Pro: Businesses are property and those who found businesses deserve to own them, sell them, and control them.
1.7.4.1. Con: A co-op is not forcing a person to give up their business. Co-ops are usually created by workers coming together to invest in the business. Once they make their investments back, they use the business to focus on job security.
1.7.4.2. Con: Treating businesses as property is not the best option.
1.7.4.2.1. Pro: Treating businesses as property allows individuals to create totalitarian domains in society. This forces those who aren't business owners to live their lives in a daily hierarchical dictatorship and trains them to be comfortable in that sort of societal structure.
1.7.4.2.2. Pro: This claim is analogous to one that states "those who found nations/states deserve to own them and control them." Compared to other practised governance models for nations/states, models that most often result in net-positive outcomes for their citizens are the ones that provide regular opportunities for the majority of people who reside in those nations/states to transfer political power and directly/indirectly make changes to society to improve their own lives.
1.7.4.3. Con: Founders don't always own their businesses.
1.7.4.3.1. Pro: Ownership of a business doesn't necessarily, by default, need to be based on who originally founded the business based on an assumption of "deserving" to own something.
1.7.4.3.2. Pro: Many businesses today aren't owned or controlled by the people who founded them; they're owned by shareholders, who acquire ownership by purchasing shares with money.
1.7.4.4. Con: Businesses are not property.
1.7.4.4.1. Pro: Businesses are either more than just "property" or are not "property" per se. They're an organization \(or arguably a society of\) people who invest time and energy in doing work to produce goods and services for others to consume.
1.7.4.4.2. Pro: Businesses are also a type of society of people. The constituents of societies deserve to have sufficiently equal power over the governance of the societies they reside in to provide formal mechanisms for protecting their rights and well-being as they exist in such societies.
1.7.4.5. Con: Despite Western society's acceptance of property rights as axiomatic, property rights are arbitrary and have no moral justification. Virtually all ownership of land \(and by induction, all property\) is justified by the right of conquest, which lacks moral authority. Even Western corporations weren't always considered property, they were established temporarily for the public good, and were more of a way to pool resources and labor than a profit-making venture in their earlier days.
1.7.4.5.1. Con: There is no moral justification in taking property from someone without their consent \(thievery\). It is always possible to create a "crowdshare" type company or corporation; it does, however, exist a fear that they would fail, outright, and that the "other guys" should be forced to play along to even the playing field.
1.7.4.6. Pro: If single persons are not allowed anymore to found businesses, this will disincentivise people to start new companies or explore new technologies, therefore heavily damaging the economy.
1.7.4.6.1. Con: The shareholder ownership model of businesses hasn't disincentivized founding new businesses or exploring new technologies because of the beneficial trade-off of allowing wealthy investors to own part of a business. Similar beneficial tradeoffs are present with worker ownership models, which do today incentivize business owners to found or convert their business to a worker co-op.
1.7.5. Pro: No one will loan significant capital to a venture without some control over how that capital is used.
1.7.5.1. Con: Many people invest in stocks all the time without any expectation or desire to have substantial power and control over how their investment is used. They make those investments in hopes of being able to sell them in the future to turn a profit.
1.7.5.2. Con: A co-op would not be one person trying to invest. This would be multiple employees from within the same field of work investing together. If the government got on board with co-ops to help with distribution of profit we could also demand our politicians incentivize banks to give out low equity loans to workers trying to create co-ops.
1.7.5.3. Con: Banks give business loans all the time without substantial control over how their loans are used.  And this is in a world where equity financing is an option. If we remove equity financing as an option, business loans will be an even more palatable option for people with capital that needs to be used.
1.7.5.3.1. Con: Banks also give a lot of loans with substantial control over how that loan is used. In many cases, they even get a seat on the board of directors. Even in cases they don't have direct control, lenders can influence management of a company as long as they hold the purse strings.
1.7.5.4. Con: In [angel investing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Angel_investor), for example, you don't ask for control in return for capital.
1.7.5.4.1. Con: Some do anyway.
1.7.6. Pro: Founders, top management and big investors put themselves under financial and personal risks most people are not willing to take. This is why their effort should be economically rewarded by an order of magnitude higher than that of the workers.
1.7.6.1. Con: Workers quite literally invest their lives in their workplaces. For workers who perform dangerous physical labor, they are putting their lives directly at far more risk than top management and big investors. This is why workers should be given formal democratic mechanisms of control over the organization they invest the majority of their waking lives in.
1.7.6.2. Con: The point of a worker cooperative isn't to directly reward workers more; it's to directly provide workers with a formal democratic mechanism for influencing the governance and direction of the organization they work in. Workers, through direct or representative democratic control \(e.g. by electing board members\) will reward their top management based on how well their top management performs at making their organization thrive in the marketplace.
1.7.6.3. Con: A co-op would more evenly spread the financial risk between multiple workers instead of a select few.
1.7.7. Pro: Alternatives to equity financing give far too much power to banks, governments, and demagogues.
1.7.7.1. Con: Crowd financing doesn't give any power to banks, governments, or demagogues and is a very viable alternative to equity financing. In a system where equity financing wasn't an option and wealth was more evenly spread, crowd financing would be an even more attractive option.
1.7.7.1.1. Con: Crowdfunding is great for sexy/interesting/flavor of the month things, but if someone achieved a technical breakthrough on septic systems, it would not be as appealing as the 100,000th dating app with a twist.
1.7.7.1.2. Con: Crowdfunding creates many perverse incentives, laid bare through scams like Kony 2012 or the county clerk that illegally refused gay marriages raising $600,000 for nothing. It doesn't even have to be malicious, like the six figure potato salad or even a good cause like the ALS ice bucket challenge. These show inefficient allocation of capital and incentives for organizations to focus on gimmicky fundraising techniques over core business.
1.7.7.1.2.1. Con: This is just as true of equity financing.  There are plenty of scam companies with thin or no business models that are able to raise equity financing and then promptly fail.  Or live on and even raise multiple rounds with no clear or core business.
1.7.8. Con: Capital needs to go somewhere, and without the ability to invest in stock, banks will be more likely to give business loans.
1.7.8.1. Con: Banks generally do not provide equity funding, as equity investments greatly increase regulatory capital requirements. Asset managers, pension funds and insurance companies do that.
1.7.8.2. Con: Loans are different from equity as they do not capture the upside and therefore are unfit to finance risky business ventures.
1.7.9. Pro: Inability to raise equity will lead to substantially higher leverage levels and thus will exacerbate risks of economic shocks.
1.7.10. Con: An economy based on worker cooperatives is going to spread wealth more evenly, since it's harder to make money from your money and workers are going to pay themselves better, so people will have extra money to spend by giving loans to family and friends or contributing to crowd funding or crowd financing campaigns.
1.7.10.1. Con: Loans and crowdfunding are not viable alternatives to equity financing. Most start-ups have extremely high risk of default, often only justified a high potential upside. So either loans would have usurious rates or lenders wouldn't have an incentive to invest.
1.7.10.1.1. Con: Most Kickstarter and IndieGoGo projects are very high risk, but that doesn't prevent them from being funded.  Crowdfunding, with no potential upside other than receiving the product and maybe a small gift, has been shown to work well even in an economy where equity financing is an option.
1.7.10.2. Pro: Loans worked just fine for capitalism until the late 19th century, when equities were introduced. Venture capitalism has only existed since 1946.
1.7.10.2.1. Con: Prototypes of venture capital firms existed long before 20th century. These firms \(more like individual traders\) were co-financing trade and colonization expeditions. These financing arrangements usually included some kind of profit distribution waterfall.
1.7.10.3. Con: Large, capital-intensive projects \(new factories, plans, construction, private infrastructure\) require substantial committed equity \(often billions of dollars\) before they can get debt. Crowd funding is not suitable or too expensive for large capital-intensive projects, so these projects most likely will not be funded at all.
1.7.11. Con: Businesses which jump start growth via influx of capital do so by rushing through processes which would result in a better business \(for customer, shareholder, and employee\) were they given the time to organically come about.
1.7.11.1. Pro: For an example of this, examine the boom & bust cycles which are created by Western capitalism. 

Boom = influx of capital
Bust = market correction \(because the influx was too much for the market to handle\)
1.8. Con: Stock corporations are more transparent than not publicly traded corporations, such as family companies. The latter are more suspicious to fraud.
1.8.1. Con: Securities laws and regulations could be updated to include worker co-ops in their scope, thus requiring them to be similarly \(or exceedingly\) transparent with their internal financial information.
1.9. Pro: An economy based on worker cooperatives will spread wealth more evenly, equitably, and justly because those who are doing to the work get to decide how they should be paid for their work.  There are no absentee stock holders, uninvolved in the business, who need to be paid.
1.9.1. Pro: In an integrated cooperative economy, few "factories" need to close because workers can vote to accept a universal pay cut rather than to be laid off. Furthermore, in situations where "factories" really do need to close, cooperative workers can be transferred to different economic sectors where more demand is present.
1.9.2. Pro: Germany has a strong presence of worker reps in their executive boards and this actually does have a good effect a lot of the time.
1.9.3. Con: The will of the workers is not necessarily what is best for the survival of the company, especially in times of austerity or low profits.
1.9.3.1. Pro: Worker cooperatives are less efficient because they place a premium on job security.
1.9.3.1.1. Con: Worker cooperatives have actually shown to be [more efficient](https://www.thenation.com/article/worker-cooperatives-are-more-productive-than-normal-companies/) because a co-op allows the worker to have input in how the company is ran and how they are paid. Traditional companies make their employees feel like they are gears in the system instead of having input on what that system is producing.
1.9.3.1.2. Pro: If businesses are run democratically, this negates the economic concept of comparative advantages and the benefits of hierarchy. Any business adhering to this model will be necessarily less competitive than those which do not.
1.9.3.1.2.1. Con: This makes no sense. Comparative advantages are the ability of one group of workers to create products more efficiently than another group of workers. A co-op still has hierarchy. The difference is the workers/member of the co-op all vote on who the board is that hires the managers. Which allows everyone to have a say in the company instead of the few holding the majority of the stocks within the company.
1.9.3.1.3. Pro: Workers will vote in their favor rather than in the favor of the future of the company.
1.9.3.1.3.1. Con: The future of the workers is largely the same as the future of the company. These are not mutually exclusive things with divergent outcomes.
1.9.3.1.3.2. Con: Companies where workers choose to vote against the interests of the company surviving will fail, just as companies with bad leadership fail in today's markets. Companies where workers successfully balance their interests with the interests of the company as a whole will succeed.
1.9.3.1.4. Con: The global economy can afford to trade some level of efficiency for worker and community stability.
1.9.3.1.5. Con: The efficiency loss in hiring and firing may be balanced by efficiency gains from increased worker incentives to work hard and innovate.
1.9.3.1.5.1. Pro: Job security is an important measure for [job satisfaction](http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00036846.2014.914148) which in turns enhances [workplace motivation](https://contactzilla.com/blog/5-psychological-theories-motivation-increase-productivity/).
1.9.3.1.6. Pro: When deciding on which factory to close there will be a stalemate between the workers in the different factories.
1.9.3.1.6.1. Con: A co-op has a board of individuals that are voted in by the workers and members who are consumers. The democratically elected board would make the decision on what factory/place of business would close. Currently the stockholders who own a majority of the company make this decision with no say from workers or consumers. People would argue about the decisions being made in a co-op, but when they argue in a co-op they have a vote; in a traditional business you have no say in the matter.
1.9.3.1.7. Pro: -> See 1.4.2.
1.10. Con: -> See 1.9.3.1.
1.11. Con: Issues concerning concentration of wealth can be tackled \(in part\) with education policy, better functioning labour markets, more dynamic workers' unions, stronger anti-trust laws as well as enforcement - all of which do not require replacing stock companies with workers' cooperatives.
1.11.1. Con: Workers unions only let workers bargain for better working conditions and wages. Co-ops put workers in decision making positions, by allowing the workers to have a vote on who the board of directors are.
1.11.2. Con: These methods are not long-lasting. The wealthiest majority shareholders of corporations tend to use their economic power to influence government policy and voting trends, which in the US has led to the erosion of unions and the dismantling of policies that protect workers. By deconcentrating economic power away from a handful of the hyperwealthy and granting it equally and decentrally to every worker at every coop, worker protections established by workers themselves would be more sustainable