Discussion Title: The United States and Mexico should become one nation

1. The United States and Mexico should become one nation
1.1. Con: The USA would inherit many problems, drugs, poverty, education, and get no benefits, other than millions more on welfare. This is a terrible idea.
1.1.1. Con: The US already has a larger drug problem than Mexico, in terms of its impact to the general population.
1.2. Pro: Becoming one nation could provide military benefits to both nations.
1.2.1. Pro: Military resources could be consolidated to present a large force.
1.3. Pro: Becoming one nation could create positive economic benefits.
1.3.1. Pro: Goods could flow more easily between the formerly divided nations.
1.4. Pro: Our Southern border would be smaller, thus, less ground to patrol and defend.
1.5. Pro: This would provide positive benefits to the people living in both countries.
1.5.1. Pro: Many people claim to endorse human rights, right up until it costs them - or even threatens to cost them - anything at all in terms of money, time or convenience. The good people of Mexico suffer sub-acceptable levels of human rights and safety due to the incompetence and/or corruption of their government. If the USA and Mexico merged, we would have the same government and, over process of time, the same level of human rights.
1.5.2. Pro: People from Mexico would be citizens of The United States of America. No more need immigrate. They could just move to a new state if they wanted to.
1.6. Con: Mexico has a strong sense of identity and would not want to give over control of their state to the United States.
1.6.1. Pro: Mexico's sense of cultural, political and social identity would feel at risk if the two nations were to become one.
1.6.2. Con: The claim is that they would become one nation, not that the US would annex Mexico. Thus, both states would be in control on politics and economic strategies.
1.6.2.1. Con: United Kingdom is a good example of this not working in practice. Smaller 'members' would have hard time being influential. Example: Scotland has voted in favour of the UK staying in the EU by 62% to 38% - with all 32 council areas backing Remain. They still have to leave EU due to votes from other members total being 52%. This could cause local unrest in the communities.
1.7. Con: Racism in the United States indicates that Mexicans would be endangered by the U.S. and Mexico becoming one nation.
1.7.1. Pro: [The U.S. has a continuing history of anti-Latino sentiment.](https://www.history.com/news/the-brutal-history-of-anti-latino-discrimination-in-america)
1.7.2. Con: Sadly, racism does still exist in the United States. It also exists in other areas of the world, perhaps even in Mexico. I think that some good leadership and education campaigns could help build unity and begin to root out racism. It is my opinion that racism is based on ignorance and fear.
1.8. Pro: Many new economic opportunities would open up in the Mexican states.
1.9. Con: Larger states endanger their own citizens and those abroad. We should favour secession and decentralisation instead.
1.10. Pro: SpaceX could build a space port closer to the equator.
1.10.1. Pro: Rockets launched on or near the equator get a speed boost from the rotation of the earth. This make having launch facilities near the equator more desirable. Space is already working on a location at the most Southern part of Texas in order to take advantage of this. [qrg.northwestern.edu](http://www.qrg.northwestern.edu/projects/vss/docs/navigation/2-why-launch-from-equator.html)
1.10.2. Pro: SpaceX is a USA-based, private space exploration company. A successful space company on USA soil brings jobs and money to the country. SpaceX is an innovative leader in this industry.
1.11. Con: Drug lords and cartels would have easier access to pushing drugs.
1.11.1. Con: This \(or the issues stemming from this\) could be mitigated by ending The War on Drugs.
1.11.1.1. Pro: Many drugs could be legalized, which would cut off some the issues surrounding both cartels and the War on Drugs.
1.12. Con: There would be a lot more coastline to patrol.
1.12.1. Pro: This would put pressure on state resources.
1.12.1.1. Con: There would also be more resources brought to the state by the people, which mitigates this problem.
1.12.2. Con: This might finally justify the United States' enormous military budget.
1.13. Con: There would be much more poverty to deal with.
1.13.1. Con: Eventually- or even transitively now- poverty throughout the world would be or is problematic to the U.S.
1.13.1.1. Con: This is not necessarily true. If the US continues in its isolationist policies, then global incidents will have minimal impact.
1.13.1.1.1. Con: The United States cannot maintain isolationism.
1.13.1.2. Pro: Individuals in poverty elsewhere may seek to enter the United States at any cost.
1.13.2. Pro: Mexico has [extreme levels](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poverty_in_Mexico) of poverty in many areas that the US would then have to shoulder.
1.14. Con: Resorts in Mexico would probably end up costing a lot more, which could hurt the tourism industry in those areas.