Discussion Title: Theories on the final Star Wars Trilogy

1. Theories on the latest Star Wars Trilogy\(Ep.VII-IX\).
1.1. It will resume 10 years from The Last Jedi. Leia will have died recently and reunions will occur related to her funeral. The First Order has fallen in line with new leader Kylo Ren. The rebellion people from The Last Jedi barely hung on but did manage to reunite and there's much talk of new sparks of rebellion. Luke will not be in IX.
1.1.1. Con: Though many of these points could happen, I find the first highly unlikely, considering the movie comes out next year.
1.2. The First Order will have designed and constructed yet another super weapon, which the Resistance/Rebels will attempt to destroy.
1.3. Shortly after the end of TLJ, Rey leads the resistance and has begun to train a few new force users \(including Finn\). They re-band, reinforced with some interesting new light-side allies. Leia has passed away. When the Knights of Ren pose a threat to an as-yet-divulged important ally, the new force users and Rey must respond and rescue \(in contrast with their abandonment in the TLJ\).
1.4. Hyperspace-ramming of ships is not a big thing, nor are re-fueling concerns. \(We'll never hear much of those again\).
1.5. Rey is continually tempted to join Kylo, and Kylo finds it hard to resist Rey's vision, continuing the most interesting dynamic of TLJ.
1.6. Dark and Light side of the Force will eventually merge, this way restoring the ballance.
1.7. Rey's fate will largely follow the same pattern as Anakin Skywalker's fate did.
1.7.1. Con: Rey does not express anger and fear that has droven Anakin to the dark side. She is mature and her she managed to reject the dark side on several occasions without the help of a master.
1.7.2. Pro: Rey and Anakin have many attributes in common.
1.7.2.1. Pro: Both characters are introduced as skilled individuals surviving under tough circumstances.
1.7.2.2. Pro: Both characters are exceptional pilots.
1.7.2.3. Pro: Both characters were introduced on a desert planet.
1.7.2.4. Pro: Both Characters have a strong connection to the force.
1.7.2.5. Pro: Both characters have obscured parentage.
1.7.3. Pro: Both Rey and Anakin have an exceptional connection to the force. The circumstances regarding their parents are unknown/known to a very minor extent. This means the theory that they were both created somehow either using he force or created by the force, plausible.
1.7.4. Pro: Both are presented as characters on the light side that occasionally experience moments where they fall/nearly fall to the dark side.
1.7.4.1. Pro: Rey is presented as our protagonist alongside Finn. She has subtle moments where she gives in to rage/almost gives in to rage. One example is the first order attack on Kamatas hideout where she shoots a first order trooper out of rage. Her behaviour vs Kylo Ren during their lightsaber duel hints at her acting out of rage several times. The novelisation of the force awakens backs this up.
1.7.4.1.1. Pro: Ex. Her first experience firing a blaster: Rey gets angry in a familiar way. It's like when Luke unleashes his inner rage against Darth Vader in "Return of the Jedi." Rey could be connecting with the Dark Side. The script for "The Force Awakens" explicitly says that Rey debates killing Kylo Ren during their duel, but stops herself because she is on "the edge of the dark side." 
The official novelization reveals that an "unidentifiable" voice in her head urged her to "kill him."
1.7.4.2. Pro: When we first meet Anakin in the prequels he is seemingly an innocent kid but there's a few moments where he displays subtle hints at having the dark side within him. His internal struggle and inner rage becomes increasingly apparent throughout the prequels until he eventually falls to the dark side. Not saying Rey will necessarily follow the same path but her actions does hint at it.
1.8. In an epic battle, Supreme Leader Snoke will die. Kylo Ren will die heroically \(similarly to Darth Vader\), Finn will die heroically. Luke Skywalker will die heroically. Rey will survive burdened with grief. A new villian yet to be introduced will die as well, and he/she will be the cause of one of the main characters deaths. The Galaxy will be relatively safe in the end, but the Sith will still be around.
1.8.1. Con: That's too clean even for Disney, especially in light of New Hope. It wouldn't be that much of a remake. I suggest that Kylo Ren will almost go back, yet will die tragically killing Finn triggering Rey to defeat the Supreme Leader.
1.9. The spirit of Darth Vader is embedded in his old helmet and is what pulls Kylo to the dark side.
1.9.1. Pro: Darth Vader and Anakin Skywalker is often mentioned as if two separate beings, both by Darth Vader himself, characters who lived to know them both and by the creators of Star Wars.
It is possible that the hatred and the darkness within Darth Vader wasn't destroyed when he returned to the light but instead manifested itself into the suit of Darth Vader. [Evidence](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qs8Ty7bsRL4&list=WL&index=34) hinting at the dual personality
1.9.1.1. Pro: [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xIGRvO-iOwE) explaining that while Sith cannot become force ghosts, when their hatred is strong enough it may remain and imbue itself within relics.
1.9.1.2. Pro: Further collection of [evidence](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ucp15GH95PA) that may point to this thesis potentially coming true. Darth Vader may have undergone a similar change to that of Darth Revan.
1.9.1.2.1. Con: This video does also bring a strong case for Snoke being the one speaking to Kylo via the helmet.
1.9.1.3. Pro: The video in the claim above also explains how Darth Vaders hatred was incredibly intense and was inreased through the pain felt in his suit.
1.9.2. Con: Snoke is likely the one communicating to Kylo Ren via Vaders old helmet. [Case for Snoke](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ucp15GH95PA)
1.9.3. Con: The spirit of Anakin Skywalker was visible at the end of ROTJ as Anakin, not as Darth Vader. This makes it unlikely that there is another spirit attached to the helmet.
1.9.3.1. Con: The reason why there might exist both Anakin as a force ghost as he let's go of his darkness and Darth Vader through his darkness and hatred being imbued into his helmet, is specifically because of the duality of Anakin's being.
1.9.3.1.1. Pro: We know through canon that only those who becomes full part of the [force](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xIGRvO-iOwE), can become force ghosts. That means that in order for Anakin to become a force ghost, all of the darkness within him, the sith part called Darth Vader would have to die or disappear.
1.9.3.1.1.1. Pro: Darth Vader would often refer to Anakin Skywalker as a separate being that he had killed. The fact that Darth Vader saw Anakin as a separate identity enforces the idea of the dual personalities and almost separate spirits within him: Anakin Skywalker, a jedi fighting for the light side and Darth Vader, the dark lord of the sith who has fully embraced the dark side.
1.9.3.1.2. Pro: Additionally, Sith who has died may continue to exist when their hatred or darkness is so strong that it manifests itself in old relics. Sith can also continue to exist in some way through imbuing parts of themselves in objects as is the case with Darth Malgus who passed on his teachings this way by imbuing himself in a sith holocron.
1.9.3.2. Con: Though it might be true that the spirit of Darth Vader isn't attached to the helmet, it might still be the case that a part of Darth Vader remains within it such as possibly, the hatred of Darth Vader.
1.10. Kylo Ren's fate will mirror the fate of Anakin Skywalker, i.e. he will go through the same transformations in reverse order.
1.10.1. Con: So he will become good? Darth Vader redeemed himself in Episode VI. Disney may not want to have this happen again for Kylo Ren, especially considering recent criticism that The Force Awakens was too similar to A New Hope.
1.10.2. Pro: A lot of events during the prequels mirrored events in the original triology
1.10.2.1. Con: That's why the makers might want to create new narrative in the final movie of the third trilogy.
1.11. Obi-Wan is the grandfather of Finn.
1.11.1. Pro: This [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9J2gWYRlnlo&t=467s) on Obi-Wan's potential ties to ep.VIII makes a case for why Obi-Wan might be Rey's grandfather but considering that the creators of Star Wars likes to shock the audience through directing our attention to ponder unanswered questions that distracts us from a bigger revelation. They have successfully drawn our attention to obsess over who Rey's parents while we've forgotten to put effort into figuring out who Finns parents are.
1.11.2. Pro: While Rey is incredibly naturally gifted with the force and has a very aggressive fighting style. Both Finns and Obi-Wans connection to the force is a lot weaker and their fighting styles both focus on defense.
1.12. Luke Skywalker is the last Jedi.
1.12.1. Con: The "Jedi" in the "The Last Jedi" title [is plural](http://time.com/4676983/star-wars-the-last-jedi-plural/).
1.12.2. Pro: Even though the "Jedi" in the title is [plural](http://time.com/4676983/star-wars-the-last-jedi-plural/), it may be true in a traditional way of understanding the figure of a Jedi.
1.12.3. Pro: Whether singular or plural, the title is alluding to the idea that the Jedi are a flawed and failed institution which needs to be replaced by something different/better/more balanced.
1.12.4. Pro: Neither Rey nor Kylo Ren \(nor the others Luke attempted to train\) learned enough to be Jedi, and with Luke's death there are no more living \(trained\) Jedi.
1.13. Maz Kanata will ultimately have a similar role & impact in the last Star Wars Triology as Yoda had in the Original Triology.
1.13.1. Pro: She is an old and small but seemingly powerful creature who is deeply rooted in the light.
1.13.2. Pro: She gifted Rey her first lightsaber, the same way Obi-Wan gifted Anakin his lightsaber. She could be seen as an amalgamation of Yoda/Obi
1.13.3. Con: Lupita Nyong'o [seemingly is not involved](http://www.digitalspy.com/movies/star-wars/news/a807605/lupita-nyongo-maz-lantana-cut-star-wars-episode-8/) in Ep. VIII at all. If this is true, Maz Kanata will only play a small \(digitally created\) role at most.
1.13.3.1. Con: The actress does say in this piece that the shooting is part of her future and we should not forget that there is Episode IX too.
1.14. From the trailer we see Luke afraid of a "raw" force; that may be Rey's one, and this could lead Rey to establish a new way of conceiving the figure of a Jedi and the Force and unite herself with Kylo Ren.
1.14.1. Con: Rey and Kylo seem antagonistic characters.
1.15. Rey is a reincarnation of the chosen one, Anakin Skywalker.
1.15.1. Con: The Star Wars universe does not have other examples of reincarnation.
1.15.1.1. Con: A Non Sequitur; It is entirely possible that there are force powers not yet covered by any canonical works \(as episode VIII shows\). The franchise is not necessarily limited to currently known force abilities, nor should they be.
1.15.2. Con: This would potentially destroy the narrative that one does not have to be of special birth to be a Jedi.
1.15.2.1. Con: Regardless of whether the thesis is true, it is still the case that Rey is naturally more highly attuned to the force than almost everyone in the galaxy, and was born to non-force-sensitive parents. This is true regardless of the truth value of the thesis, and so does not affect the narrative as much as one might otherwise suppose.
1.15.3. Pro: -> See 1.7.2.
1.15.4. Pro: Despite the fact that the force ghosts of Yoda and Obi-wan were audibly present in episode VII and that Anakin could potentially sway Kylo from the dark side, Anakin's force ghost was never observed.
1.15.4.1. Con: Kylo talking directly to the helmet of Darth Vader as if having a conversation with a presence, could imply that he was talking to the ghost of Anakin or spiritual remains of Darth Vader.
1.15.5. Pro: Rey outclasses Kylo Ren, A direct descendent of the chosen one who has been trained by the most powerful living known lightsider and the most powerful living known darksider in the galaxy, in various conflicts.
1.15.5.1. Pro: Rey wins her lightsaber duel with Kylo Ren.
1.15.5.2. Pro: Rey outclassed Kylo Ren in strictly force related conflicts.
1.15.5.2.1. Pro: Rey won the tug-of-war on the skywalker lightsaber.
1.15.5.2.2. Pro: Rey won the mental conflict with Kylo Ren while she was being interrogated.
1.15.5.2.3. Con: Kylo Ren was displayed as emotionally unstable throughout the movie and this was shown to clearly affect his ability to utilize the force.
1.15.5.3. Con: Circumstances that substantially weakened Kylo Ren at the time of the fight is the reason why Rey was able to win.
1.15.5.3.1. Pro: Kylo Ren received a devastating wound and was bleeding heavily after being shot by Chewbacca's bowcaster, a weapon that would've killed a normal, non-force sensitive person. This meant that Kylo was physically crippled during the fight.
1.15.5.3.2. Pro: Kylo Ren experienced an emotional crisis which was exacerbated when he killed his own father. This weakened his connection to the force substantially.
1.15.5.3.3. Pro: Kylo Ren's inability to fight properly is clearly visible as Finn, who Kylo should've been able to best with ease, was able to duel with Kylo for a shorter period of time.
1.15.5.3.4. Con: Dark side users use emotional and physical pain to fuel their connection to the dark side of the force. If anything, Kylo Ren should've been even more powerful than normal during his duel with Rey.
1.15.6. Pro: This theory is narratively satisfying.
1.15.6.1. Pro: Luke could echo episode V by saying, "Rey, You are/were my father"
1.15.6.2. Pro: This theory allows the sequel trilogy to be connected to the first six movies in such a way that a continuous story is told from I- IX.
1.15.6.3. Pro: This theory allows us to continue Vader's story arc.
1.15.6.3.1. Pro: This theory allows the chosen one to attone for his/her crimes as Vader.
1.15.6.3.2. Pro: This theory allows the chosen one to "do it all over again" and get a second chance to do things right.
1.15.6.3.2.1. Pro: 'The Force Awakens' was essentially a remake of 'A New Hope' storywise and showed a clear intent from the directors to recycle past Star Wars stories to do things right the second time.
1.15.6.3.3. Pro: Rey could decline to identify as Vader, leaving that part of the chosen One's history behind her.
1.15.6.3.4. Con: Many consider Vader's story arc as finished and to reopen it could risk upsetting many Star Wars fans.
1.16. Luke Skywalker is the most powerful force ghost ever, and can materialise himself at will. There will be an opponent with similar powers to Luke for him to confront in the final film, perhaps a hidden enemy. Or one who was thought to be previously dead.
1.17. The identity of Supreme Leader Snoke is a character that has already made an appearance within the Star Wars universe.
1.17.1. Con: Snoke is the Prime Jedi.
1.17.1.1. Pro: There are similarities between Snoke and the painting of the Prime Jedi on Ahch To [\(7:57\)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-mZZAvIHMvQ&t=527s).
1.17.2. Pro: Snoke is Darth Plagueis
1.17.2.1. Con: Pablo Hidalgo confirmed, that he is not Darth Plagueis.
1.17.3. Pro: [Gallius Rax](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4HPNZxbzgDU) is Supreme leader Snoke.
1.17.4. Pro: The son of Mortis is Supreme leader Snoke.
1.17.4.1. Pro: As shown in this[video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2oJsH0ZLS4U), there are several similarities between the two beings such as their shared height, connection to the dark side and age.
1.17.5. Pro: Mace Windu is Supreme Leader Snoke.
1.17.5.1. Con: He died pretty clearly in RoTS \(lost his hand, force lightning and falling a very long distance
1.17.5.1.1. Con: Both Lucas and Samuel L Jackson has previously shown an openess to the idea that Windu somehow survived the fall. Since we don't actually see him die nor ever get confirmation of his death in the finding of his remains, wether or not he died remains unclear.
1.17.5.2. Con: Snoke looked pretty white too compared to Windu.
1.17.5.2.1. Con: Body decaying could mean loss of color as well, there is apparent damage to Snoke's body and we don't know what his body has been through specifically.
1.17.5.2.2. Con: Throughout Star Wars it seems as if using the Dark Side does significant damage to the body and in most cases seems to make the skin go pale.