Discussion Title: There should be a united International Women's liberation party.

1. There should be a united International Women's liberation party.
1.1. Con: Women should raise the family, not participate in politics.
1.1.1. Con: There is no logical reason why that should be the case.
1.1.2. Con: This is discrimination.
1.2. Pro: It would help democracy, as it fosters dialogue and freedom of speech.
1.2.1. Con: This is not unique to a woman's liberation party
1.3. Con: No one can agree on what 'feminist' means.
1.3.1. Pro: people cannot agree \(or cannot seem to agree\) on a single unifying definition of 'Woman". Hence there is no group that can align behind the term.
1.4. Con: International movements do not work.
1.4.1. Pro: Cultural differences cannot be overcome.
1.5. Con: It would distract people from more pressing social matters like class or race inequality, or environmental issues like fossil fuel consumption or deforestation.
1.6. Pro: Branches around the world can collaborate and benefit from each other's progress and challenges.
1.6.1. Pro: members could share resources to advance the argument
1.7. Con: Issues facing women around the world are vastly different, so there is no point having a consolidated political front.
1.7.1. Pro: Women's rights is not a partisan issue and any international movement should go beyond partisan lines. There are proponents of womens rights across the spectrum, that have little to nothing else in common in their political views.
1.7.2. Con: There could be regional or national branches that work together via international meetings, similar to how parties work in unions like the EU or the United States.
1.7.3. Con: Women share similar issues world-wide, such as childcare, equal pay, equal legal standing, workplace discrimination, and others.
1.7.4. Pro: The party created to push single topic can't be sucessful. There are multiple different questions that must be included in the party platform. Not all womens has the same views on taxation, labor law, governmental regulations of business, housing, military policies, health care etc. So this hypotetical party will not have a unfied platform and would not be able to attract voters.
1.7.5. Con: Political parties within nations already unite people from many different backgrounds and facing different issues in somewhat consolidated fronts. Diversity of ideas is a key component of modern political parties. There is no reason an international women's movement could not do the same.