Discussion Title: There should be an FBI investigation into the Kavanaugh allegations

1. There should be an FBI investigation into the Kavanaugh allegations
1.1. Pro: Most of the committee found Dr. Ford's testimony to be credible.
1.1.1. Con: New evidence from an ex-boyfriend contradicts and proves she lied her fear of flying, about coaching on polygraphs, and her fear of enclosed spaces.[foxnews.com](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/christine-blasey-ford-ex-boyfriend-says-she-helped-friend-prep-for-potential-polygraph-grassley-sounds-alarm)
1.1.1.1. Con: Fox News is [not renowned](https://mediabiasfactcheck.com/fox-news/) for unbiased or reasonable reporting, rendering this source questionable.
1.1.2. Con: Credibility of a witness means nothing. You need evidence.
1.1.2.1. Con: The point of the investigation would be to determine if there is any evidence to support the claim.
1.2. Pro: We can both investigate and continue the nomination process. If the senate put a clause in Kavanaugh's confirmation that states if he is found guilty then he must resign. If the democrats accept this then we know it was not a delay only tactic.
1.2.1. Con: You cannot be "found guilty" by an FBI investigation. FBI's can only provide 302s.
1.2.2. Con: A clause cannot be added to a confirmation. The Senate review is to either confirm or reject a nominee to the bench.
1.2.3. Con: The senate cannot conditionally consent to a Supreme Court nomination, only advise and consent. There may be a possibility of impeachment under some circumstances.
1.3. Con: Mitchell's memo notes nine significant problems with Ford's testimony and underscores that her case is "even weaker" than a "he said, she said" case.[dailywire.com](https://www.dailywire.com/news/36519/prosecutor-questioned-ford-shreds-her-case-5-page-ryan-saavedra)
1.3.1. Con: Mitchell's opinions are irrelevant.
1.3.2. Con: The daily wire is a very biased source[Media Bias Fact Check](https://mediabiasfactcheck.com/the-daily-wire/)
1.4. Pro: Kavanaugh's posting would be a lifetime position and requires a thorough vetting process.
1.4.1. Pro: Credible allegations have been made along with signed declarations under oath. Witnesses named to the FBI should require interviews and all leads should be followed. His testimony continues to be disproved even by his own hand. All evidence requires a thorough review by unbiased, trained professionals without limitations of any political bias. Outcome of such investigation must be presented to the American people. It is a lifetime position to the Supreme Court. Our futures depend on it.
1.4.2. Con: He shouldn't be expected to go through any more thorough a background investigation than the others posted in similar position without adequate evidence.
1.5. Con: The results of an FBI investigation do not make a definitive conclusion. The 302 forms simply report raw data. In other words the investigation does not present a guilty or not guilty judgement.
1.5.1. Con: The results of an FBI investigation may or may not make a definitive conclusion, but to prevent them is an example of "the perfect being enemy of the good". The FBI investigates many people and sometimes they find something important, sometimes they don't. Without investigation, that still surely favors bad nominees.
1.6. Pro: Kavanaugh has been accused of multiple sex crimes.
1.6.1. Con: Most of the accusations against Judge Kavanaugh, other than Dr. Ford, are not credible.
1.6.1.1. Pro: Ford's accusation is also not credible.
1.6.1.1.1. Con: This is subjective. Until they have been fully investigated, their credibility is disputable, but that does not mean they are untrue.
1.6.1.1.2. Pro: -> See 1.1.1.
1.6.1.1.3. Pro: -> See 1.1.2.
1.6.1.2. Con: -> See 1.6.1.1.1.
1.7. Pro: The written statements of involved parties is insufficient.
1.7.1. Pro: Additional testimony may reveal new information.
1.7.2. Pro: It is also suspicious how quickly it was procured for somebody who arguing their innocence.
1.7.3. Con: Kavanaugh doesn't need to prove a negative. Ford's statement is the one that's insufficient. Swetnick's accusation is farcical at best.
1.8. Con: The Democrats should have released this information to the committee when it surfaced and deemed credible.
1.8.1. Con: This is a red herring. Although a true statement, the fact that the submission was delayed does not change whether or not it is credible, which, in the opinions of both parties, it is. Any credible claim should be investigated.
1.8.2. Pro: Leaked emails suggest dual stonewalling
1.8.3. Con: Ford had originally requested Feinstein that it be [confidential](https://townhall.com/tipsheet/laurettabrown/2018/09/28/feinstein-denies-that-her-office-leaked-fords-letter-accusing-kavanaugh-n2523365).
1.8.3.1. Con: Had Sen. Feinstein released the memo to the committee privately \(something they do often\), it could have been investigated by the committee and/or the FBI in a far more private manner.
1.8.3.2. Pro: Feinstein is not allowed by law to break her constituents' confidentiality.
1.8.4. Pro: The charges were released after the constituent decided to reveal her identity and her assertion had been deemed credible by her congress members.
1.9. Con: The whole issue belongs in criminal court and the confirmation panel should concentrate on confirming an effective judge, not a perfect person.
1.9.1. Pro: If the nominee belonged in criminal court, then the next step is impeachment, since he's on the court now.
1.9.2. Con: The investigation \(or withdrawal of nomination\) could have prevented the need for a lengthy impeachment trial.
1.10. Con: There is not enough evidence on the side of the accuser to warrant a federal investigation.
1.10.1. Con: Without a clear standard of "what is enough evidence" this is a meaningless statement. The "believe women" position is that when there is an accusation, it should be investigated. That may be as simple as establishing an alibi, or interviewing many potential witnesses.
1.10.1.1. Con: The United States law works under an 'innocent until proven guilty' policy. Trusting women based on no evidence is one thing. Punishing people with no evidence is a whole different thing.
1.10.2. Con: There is not enough evidence, period, for the Senate to have made a confident decision that they have chosen the right person for a life time position in the Supreme Court.
1.10.2.1. Con: This is irrelevant, the argument is about whether or not there should be a federal investigation into the Kavanaugh accusations; not about the Supreme Court position.
1.11. Con: Kavanaugh has already been investigated.
1.11.1. Pro: Kavanaugh has not been investigated of these crimes
1.11.2. Con: While this is true, we don't know what questions were asked w.r.t. sexual misconduct.
1.11.3. Con: Since new allegations have surfaced, they merit a fresh investigation.
1.12. Con: Former Vice President Joe Biden has stated that the FBI Investigations are worthless.
1.12.1. Con: His reasoning behind this is unclear, as are his motives.
1.12.2. Con: Biden does not control the FBI.
1.12.3. Con: This circumstance may be different case or Biden's estimation may be wrong.
1.13. Pro: The allegation against Judge Kavanaugh is so serious that everyone should be interested in investegation. Remember Judge Kavanaugh will be serving for life and he will be influencing the country for decades. Regardless of the outcome of a possible investigation, a supreme court judge can never be vetted to thoroughly.
1.14. Con: This is a delay tactic by the Democrats to push his hearing past the midterm elections.
1.14.1. Con: This is a red herring. Although the timing of this release makes your statement probable, that does not change whether or not the claim is credible, which, given the statements from both parties at this point, it would seem to be. Any credible claim should be investigated.
1.14.2. Pro: The delay tactic cannot stop a conservative judge from being appointed to the bench
1.14.3. Con: The FBI investgation of Anita Hill's allegations in a similar case in 1991, took [3 days](https://www.cnn.com/2018/09/19/politics/anita-hill-clarence-thomas-allegations-timeline/index.html). This could not slow down the confirmation past the mid-terms, assuming nothing was found.
1.14.3.1. Con: Regardless of the duration \(and scope\) of the FBI investigation, a significant portion of the populous will never be satisfied.
1.14.4. Con: The tactics and timing of the allegation doesn’t make it any less credible or critical for the American people to know about. This is a lifetime appointment on the Supreme Court, and the American people deserve to have a justice who has been very thoroughly proven to have the highest degree of ethical and moral judgment.
1.14.5. Pro: FBI Investigations are extreme vetting and Kavanaugh has been investigated by the FBI over 6 times. The Committee did its job to Advise and Consent to the wishes of the Executive Branch after reviewing both the 6 FBI background checks and his record. Clearly political stall tactics from Democratic Committee members.
1.14.6. Pro: This particular area had not been covered in previous FBI investigations.
1.14.7. Con: It doesn't make sense as a delay tactic when any other President would have just picked someone else by now. For it to work as a "delay tactic" would rely on Trump's pattern of refusing to admit when he's made a mistake and change course, which could have been done with the stroke of a pen, and you can't even really put that on the Democrats.