Discussion Title: There should be no limit to freedom of speech.

1. There should be no limits on freedom of speech.
1.1. Pro: Censorship leads to narrow mindedness by preventing sincere and open discussion.
1.1.1. Con: Censoring yelling fire in a theater does not lead to narrow mindedness, conformism, or prevent sincere and open discussion, so this is not a defense of all speech.
1.1.2. Pro: We need to teach people openness and tolerance, not forbid them from voicing their opinions.
1.1.2.1. Con: Therefore we should prohibit speech that promotes intolerance.
1.1.2.2. Con: The current understanding of political correctness is respecting people by not using offensive, harmful, or language that incites violence, so by being politically correct you are learning how to be open and tolerant.
1.1.2.3. Con: Tolerance is better learned when hate speech is outlawed, since that is the epitome of intolerance.
1.1.2.3.1. Con: Let hateful people say hateful things. Better than outlawing it is encouraging a society where people come to the defence of a victim of such a thing.
1.1.3. Pro: Hearing counter arguments is more effective in fighting a harmful idea than just muting it.
1.1.3.1. Con: Not everyone can be convinced through rational argumentation.
1.1.3.1.1. Pro: Sometimes people are unreasonable, are unwilling to argue, or can't hear you.
1.1.3.1.2. Pro: People are not always logical. Speech that preys on a distrust of research and is emotionally manipulative can sway a large population and inspire actions far faster than logical argument can dismantle it.
1.1.3.2. Con: It is not more effective to argue about whether there is a fire in the theater than to ban yelling that there is one when the person yelling it knows it isn't so.
1.1.3.3. Con: It is often the case that the loudest, most shocking opinions are pushed to the top.
1.1.3.3.1. Con: Some opinions are loud and shocking and they are frowned upon by society in general. Opinions that move to the top must reflect the opinions or beliefs of a sizable portion of society and likely have a hint of truth to them.
1.1.3.4. Pro: Progress is made through the free expression of ideas.
1.1.4. Pro: Political correctness around speech has been gaining ground. This is harmful as it might stop people from addressing issues because they're afraid to insult/hurt an individual or group, even when they actually want to raise awareness to a genuine problem.
1.1.4.1. Pro: Being unable to merely ask the question leaves one unable to solve problems whose solutions depend on finding the answer to said question.
1.1.4.2. Con: The idea of political correctness is simply the idea of treating other people with respect, and it has been exaggerated by people who have a difficult time being respectful towards others.
1.1.4.3. Con: Political correctness has been around since at least as early as 1934, when the [New York Times reported](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_correctness) that Nazi Germany was granting reporting permits "only to pure ‘Aryans’ whose opinions are politically correct.""
1.1.5. Pro: Restrictions on freedom of speech can be used to censor good and helpful ideas.
1.1.5.1. Pro: It is too easy to ban any dissident opinion by labelling it offensive.
1.1.6. Pro: Hateful ideologies will be spread no matter what. It is safer to allow them into public discourse so they can be easily debunked, otherwise they will appear the victim and gain more sympathy.
1.1.6.1. Pro: Making certain opinions and attitudes a crime to articulate does not get rid of the opinions and attitudes, it simply allows them to continue unchallenged. People holding these opinions and attitudes will still vote. They need to be allowed to say it so that it can be a part of discussion and highlight the scale of the views generally deemed unfavourable. Censoring dissenting or aggressive views is an admission that such a view might win in an honest discussion.
1.1.6.1.1. Con: Making those ideologies illegal clearly challenges them by stating that society considers them harmful.
1.1.6.2. Con: The spread of hateful ideology will be limited by making it illegal. Perfect should not be the enemy of good.
1.1.6.3. Con: Any intolerant speech should be banished because, [if a society is tolerant without limit, its ability to be tolerant will eventually be seized or destroyed by the intolerant.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_tolerance)
1.1.7. Con: No limit on speech would allow irrational arguments and lies that may forbid followers to listen to rational argument, because it is deceptive, thus calling for and leading to hurtful action against others. [Paradox of intolerance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_tolerance) - Karl Poper
1.1.8. Con: Harassment and bullying prevent sincere and open discussion by excluding people from the debate.
1.1.9. Con: This is only true of very extreme censorship. All democracies have some censorship yet are still the most plural and free thinking societies.
1.1.10. Con: Narrow-mindedness is the cause of censorship, not its effect.
1.1.10.1. Con: If people only have access to a set of information, then they will be forever ignorant of what is being hidden from them. So they will be narrow minded, as a result.
1.1.11. Pro: Limits on freedom of speech diminish our humanity. It suggests that people will be unable to make good decisions, and it does not give the opportunity for people to make good decisions with the information we are given.
1.2. Con: Speech can be used to cause serious harm to people if not restricted in some ways.
1.2.1. Pro: No limit would mean that defamation/slander would not be punished. People could spread lies to damage someone's reputation.
1.2.1.1. Pro: With no limit, and no recourse inside the legal system, it would be quite easy to ruin a regular person's life for a few thousand dollars -- with just a little false information and a few made up stories about how s/he is, for example, a pedophile, or that someone who's livelihood depends upon trust, violated that trust in another state where no one can really check on those facts.
1.2.1.1.1. Pro: Without legal recourse in libel law there is no other way to prevent these harms.
1.2.1.2. Pro: There is nothing valuable gained by allowing intentionally false libellous speech with the intent to damage individuals.
1.2.2. Pro: You should not be allowed to cause physical harm with free speech \(e.g. shouting "FIRE!" in a crowded theater where there is no fire\).
1.2.2.1. Con: The issue is not the speech itself, as a play about pirates may have a scene where the captain yells "Fire." It is the alternative laws surrounding the content of the message that makes it illegal.
1.2.2.2. Con: Words do not cause physical harm. The example you provided would be inciting mass hysteria, not harming a person physically.
1.2.2.3. Con: Yelling "fire" in a theatre isn't a crime to do with speech, but rather an action of creating a public hazard, or criminal mischief. A patron can "say" what they want, but when they start yelling and motioning hysterically, it's the actions causing the crime.
1.2.3. Pro: A pen can be mightier than a sword: death threats, harassment, and online abuse can lead to mental issues.
1.2.3.1. Con: If people never have to face these challenges then they won't develop the thick skin necessary to survive out in the world.
1.2.3.1.1. Con: It is thick skinned not to produce purely negative comments. Not to be able to hear them without reaction, much less with a physical response.
1.2.3.1.2. Con: Being harassed will never help someone do something or become strong.
1.2.3.2. Con: All the actions above are already illegal in most US states and in each, the intent of the speaker is integral to the definition of each crime, as well as the understanding that the "victim" may have simply misunderstood what was being said.
1.2.3.3. Con: The possibility that mental issues \(or a predisposition\) can be present before any harassment or bullying occurs can't be ruled out. Therefore it can't be said that such speech inevitably leads to mental issues.
1.2.3.3.1. Con: The mental status of a recipient has no bearing on the acceptability of harassment/bullying in any form, as it is purely negative, and therefore morally repugnent. Additionally there is no way to determine anyone doesn't have 'mental issues' and most crop up from scarring/traumatic life events, not always a predisposition. No person 'deserves' to be bullied.
1.2.4. Pro: There should be reasonable limits on what someone can say i.e. if your speech causes direct harm to someone, you should be held responsible - it is a judge's call and responsibility to decide how and when a law is applied.
1.2.4.1. Pro: There are speeches that are objectively harmful for society or for groups of people, like Nazi speech. Where you draw the line, however, is always a political choice.
1.2.5. Pro: Force is defined as that which compels by physical or psychological means, therefore speech is a form of use of force. By the same token, uses of force are on a continuum of reciprocal escalation and would necessitate responsible use in a peaceful society. Speech as a form of force would then require limitations in order to prevent abuse.
1.2.6. Con: Unwanted actions are better to be banned by specifically banning the action itself. If it is harm or offense or whatever and society deems those things worthy of banning then ban them. Banning speech invariably ends up causing collateral damage in other areas because it is a broader category than the individual action you wish to ban. It is likely that you would not only ban the unwanted action but other useful/necessary/wanted actions in the process.
1.2.7. Con: Any speech that can incite harm is just the vocalization of an idea that can still inspire harm, by censoring words you prevent any reasoned response.
1.2.8. Con: Sticks and stones. The only point at which speech becomes remotely dangerous is direct, incitement of violence.
1.3. Con: The law should prohibit speech which incites violence.
1.3.1. Con: The state as the arbiter and owner of Law frequently calls its citizens to violence. The distinction between state sanctioned violence and terrorism is arbitrary.
1.3.2. Con: When people can no longer be held accountable  for their own actions there can be no rule of law. If one man speaks and another man pulls a trigger, one is a speaker, the other a murderer. To hold the speaker accountable for the actions of others -- people who he may not even know  -- is to claim The Beatles are responsible for the Manson Family murders and would make Orson Wells a criminal.
1.3.2.1. Con: Organising an assassination is an example of speech which is in some way accountable for murder. Coercion or threats of violence to encourage third-party violence are another example.
1.3.3. Con: Context and intent matter when defining incitement to violence. A threat can be made in jest and it may not even reach anyone that it would impact. The intent and the size of the immediate crowd being spoken to, matter when defining incitement to violence.
1.3.4. Pro: Free speech for terrorist = Death to victims of the terrorist party. This was evident in WWII when the people valued Hitler's freedom of speech, and rallied behind him after he was imprisoned. They gave him political power because the people thought banning terrorist from speaking was bad. He gained power through hate speech and gassed all the 'traitors' and the Jews. When you give any right more value, every other Human right loses value. Including the Jews/traitors right to live.
1.3.5. Con: Incitement to violence is a direct contradiction of liberal values and does not constitute free speech as it limits other people's freedom to speech.
1.3.6. Pro: The law should prohibit "calls to action" which encourage people to act in a violent way towards any person.
1.3.7. Con: The intent of speech is what matters, though. We have to ask whether the person intended to incite violence.
1.3.7.1. Con: Content or context would matter more than intention.
1.4. Pro: The only way to beat bad, threatening or offensive ideas is to shine the brightest light on them possible and let the world see them for what they are.
1.4.1. Con: Making them illegal would certainly do that.
1.4.2. Con: It is possible to refute arguments without allowing them to be repeated outside the context of rebuttal. See Germany's anti-fascism rules, for example.
1.5. Con: There are legitimate reasons to keep some information out of the public domain, which means limiting the ability to talk about it.
1.5.1. Pro: No limit on speech would mean no protection of state secrets.
1.5.1.1. Con: States unable to cloak themselves in secrecy would have more incentive to behave responsibly. Whistleblowers encourage good behavior in institutions, whether public or private.
1.6. Con: There must be limitations. Such as copyright; an author must be allowed a monopoly on his creation.
1.7. Con: There is no clear divide between speech and action. Some speech is, in practical terms, an action. 'If you kill my wife I will pay you £10k' is simply a series of vocalised words. Yet it's also the commissioning of a serious crime.
1.7.1. Con: In this case, the crime is not a matter of free speech but rather being an accessory to murder. The person has the right to say something like this, but doing it would be illegal.
1.7.1.1. Con: This argument is analogous to saying that you have the right to steal from someone, but doing so would be illegal. If a certain act of speech is recognised as criminal, then it's not free. This kind of speech is censored under laws regarding murder. Ergo, there is no clear divide between speech and action.
1.7.2. Con: The problem with this example is the sincerity of the statement. It could be said in jest or a legitimate threat, or even in between. However if no action is taken on this statement than it would become meaningless anyway.
1.7.3. Pro: The example above is a fraudulent contract, in which two people negotiate the destruction of something not owned by the either party. Fraud should be the limit of free speech.
1.7.3.1. Con: The second you said those words, you're effectively becoming complicit in the destruction, meaning that is the law you broke, which doesn't regulate the freedom of speech.
1.8. Con: Unlimited freedom of speech can be used to spread hateful and/or harmful ideologies.
1.8.1. Pro: Victims of any emotionally scarring experience, such as rape, molestation, etc, need defense against purposeful emotional abuse.
1.8.2. Con: While freedom of speech can be used to spread harmful ideas it can also be used to spread beneficial ideas as well. Words will always have power and to limit the use of them will limit the ideas that might be able to change the world.
1.8.2.1. Con: There are clear differences between harmful ideas and beneficial ideas which can help differentiate the speech - mainly whether that speech results in people being harmed.
1.8.2.2. Con: If the harmful speech can be differentiated from beneficial speech, then only the harmful speech can be limited and the beneficial speech won't be, mitigating any risks associated with limiting speech.
1.8.3. Con: -> See 1.1.6.
1.8.4. Con: Giving any authority the power to decide what is potentially hateful and/or harmful provides a weapon to use against free speech as a whole.
1.8.4.1. Con: There is nothing about this specific to speech; all non-anarchists concede that laws may be passed preventing particular behaviors on the grounds of their harmfulness.
1.8.4.2. Pro: Those who determine what speech is hateful or harmful changes over time, and giving the power to the government to decide what is and is not hateful and harmful will inevitably result in widespread oppression of ideas considered contrary to the interests of the ruling class.
1.8.4.2.1. Con: This may be a concern in non-democratic systems, but if governments remain beholden to the people, then the determination will remain fluid in response to the zeitgeist.
1.8.4.2.2. Con: There is no evidence of this happening without being driven by other factors.
1.8.4.3. Pro: The term hate-speech can be used by governments to criminalize unwanted opposition.
1.8.4.3.1. Con: All laws have this potential for abuse.
1.8.4.4. Con: The slippery slope argument is a fallacy. If it were not then all laws and rules would eventually lead to authoritarian regimes.
1.8.5. Con: Even if the speech is forbidden, the thoughts and motivations remain. Difference is, with speech, you are at least aware of the other person having such thoughts. Otherwise, you are not even warned. So, free speech should remain, if for no other reason, then to warn the rest of the humanity about what someone is thinking.
1.8.6. Con: There is no objective way to identify hate speech.
1.8.6.1. Pro: There is no clear definition on hateful/harmful ideologies. By the same logic one could claim unlimited freedom of speech is bad because it can be used to spread "homosexual propaganda".
1.8.6.1.1. Con: You can easily define hateful ideologies as those which promote violence against other people.
1.8.6.1.1.1. Pro: It is a false comparison to place "homosexual propaganda", which has no violent agenda, alongside, for example, Nazi propaganda, which has a clear violent agenda.
1.8.6.2. Con: Many countries have instituted working definitions of [hate speech](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hate_speech). What qualifies as "hate speech" differs depending on the agreed definition of the society in context.
1.8.6.3. Con: There is no objective definition of bribe either \(classification depends on the context\) and yet bribery is illegal.
1.8.6.3.1. Pro: It's naive to think that bribe looks like a conventional contract where parties agree on terms and payment. It may take various forms depending on the context like non-verbal cues, and may look like a friendly exchange of courtesies. However the difficulties in pointing out bribery don't make it legal.
1.9. Pro: It is possible to legislate on what people do but not on what they think or say.
1.9.1. Pro: Legislation against what people say is difficult if not impossible as people's interpretation of something is not consistent.
1.9.1.1. Con: By this logic, legislation against anything that people do - not just what they say - should be 'difficult if not impossible' due to differences in interpretation.
1.9.1.2. Pro: Accounting for different people and their perspectives is difficult.
1.9.1.3. Pro: People have various levels of sensitivity: it is always possible to find someone who will be offended by an opinion. It should not be reason enough to ban that opinion.
1.9.1.3.1. Con: This is why laws use the well established "reasonable person" standard.
1.9.1.3.2. Con: Perhaps this is true, but we do not necessarily have to limit free speech solely because it offends someone. Would you want me to have a conversation conspiring to murder someone? If not, you want to limit free speech. Would you want me to have a conversation that causes the human race to be exterminated? Otherwise there should be some limit on speech.
1.9.1.3.2.1. Con: We should permit these conversations, if by that you mean making it permissible to consider whether someone should be murdered, or whether the human race should be exterminated. You should be able to have a conversation on whether to assassinate Hitler, and if, for example, the existence of the human race threatened some multi-galaxy spanning civilization, you should be able to discuss the option of exterminating the human race.
1.9.1.4. Con: Such legislation exists and has been demonstrated to be effective.
1.9.2. Con: While it would be impossible to legislate on what one thinks, we make it so they are legally punished for expressing those thoughts out loud, such as in the case of hate speech.
1.9.2.1. Con: Limiting things like hate-speech will not stop it from being said, just not said in public. It is better that these things are discussed in the open so that everyone has a chance to contribute to the conversation and make sure that all sides to an debate are heard. Hate speech in the open allows those being discriminated to rebuttal in their defense instead of being ambushed later down the road.
1.9.2.1.1. Con: You cannot have a constructive discussion in an aggressive environment.
1.9.2.1.1.1. Pro: An attacked person cannot defend against some types of arguments like ad personam, ad invidiam, ad ignorantiam, in terrorem, etc. Eristic provides many such methods giving advantage to the one who is aggressive.
1.9.2.1.1.2. Con: Having a constructive discussion is not the only reason to speak. Here is an example: What if someone is attacking you or someone else and you can use aggressive words to deter them?
1.9.2.1.1.2.1. Con: This is the same as self-defense: when you are assaulted, attacking back is acceptable. This doesn't make attack on others acceptable in general.
1.9.2.1.2. Con: You can discuss controversial topics without resorting to hate speech.
1.10. Con: One person's freedom ends where another's begins: offensive, threatening speech should be illegal.
1.10.1. Pro: Promoting an aggressor's freedom of speech over their victim's freedoms is not right.
1.10.2. Con: Offense is subjective. What offends one person might not necessarily offend another. The power to judge what is offensive on behalf of every citizen is a power too great for any agency to hold and it should not be bestowed.
1.10.2.1. Pro: What seems offensive to some is common sense to others. Threatening speech should be illegal, but there is no catagorical measurement of what is 'offensive'.
1.10.3. Pro: Corporations should not be allowed to threaten citizens.
1.10.4. Con: Being offended by anything is only a threat to someone's ego.
1.10.5. Con: We need a clearer definition of "threatening speech" for this to be considered.
1.11. Pro: No one has a right to demand protection against being offended.
1.11.1. Pro: No one has ever actually been hurt by being offended. No one has ever got physically or mentally ill just because someone offended them. All that happens is they feel offended then move on and forget about it after a while.
1.11.1.1. Con: This statement is demonstrably false and is offered without any evidence. There are myriad example of mental illnesses brought on by repeated exposure to offensive statements. E.g. Depression, body dysmorphia, etc.
1.11.2. Pro: Being offended is a state of mind the resolution of which ought to be up to the individual offended. They may dispute the offensive statement, or not.
1.11.3. Pro: -> See 1.10.2.
1.11.4. Con: In some circumstances they do, such as in a private space such as a home or restaurant.
1.11.5. Con: Most limits on freedom of speech have little to do with offense.
1.12. Pro: To control what ideas can be expressed publicly is to control social discourse and, to some extent, what people think. No agency should be bestowed such power.
1.12.1. Con: If an agency has the goal of protecting people or a social order, then they can have such a power bestowed upon them.
1.12.2. Con: If the people that are under the power of the agency have agreed to bestow that power on the agency, then it should be bestowed upon that agency.
1.12.3. Pro: -> See 1.8.4.
1.12.4. Con: It is simple enough to give power to a person or agency, and put limitations in place to prevent abuse: elected leaders, term limits, public votes etc all allow a means to rescind power when it starts to become abused. All 3 branches of the US government were made with this very concern in mind, so the checks and balances were formed to prevent abuses of power by any one agency.
1.12.5. Con: Freedom to express ideas is compatible with other limits on free speech, such as laws against harassment and psychological abuse.
1.12.6. Pro: Every censorship is government interference in an individual's thought process, which is basically the idea that the people who we vote for in government are able to regulate the collective's thought for \(often\) 4 years at a time.
1.13. Pro: Limiting speech is a slippery slope and it is hard to know how far we allow limits. If we begin cherry picking what is and isn't acceptable then we will never know when to stop.
1.13.1. Con: If the"slippery slope" were true, then by the same logic we could all have tanks and grenade launchers since guns are legal. We do our best to impose limits where necessary, and leave it to judges to judge, and elected officials to amend when required.
1.13.1.1. Con: This comparison is not the same. A more accurate comparison would be if the US banned tanks and grenades because they are dangerous \(ignoring the real purpose for protecting people's rights to have them\) and then guns were being considered using the same reasoning. Which appears to be the case there.
1.13.2. Con: There is no evidence that setting limits on things - let alone speech - is a slippery slope.
1.13.3. Pro: Speech once considered offensive made democracy move forward \(for instance, philosophers who criticised the meddling of Church in State in the 18th century\).
1.13.3.1. Con: Speech considered offensive might also make democracy move backwards.
1.13.3.2. Pro: -> See 1.9.1.
1.13.4. Con: It is possible to have clear limits that do not require cherry picking. These limit the ability for a slippery slope to occur.
1.13.4.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.