Discussion Title: There is no meaning of life

1. There is no meaning of life.
1.1. Pro: The meaning of life is a myth. There is no evidence to support any kind of purpose of life.
1.2. Con: By being alive, we alter the course of the universe in a tiny but measurable way. The definition of what the universe is is therefore altered by our existence. This is meaningful because we contribute a small piece to everything that exists.
1.2.1. Con: Whether or not a given amount of matter is alive doesn't change whether it affects the rest of the universe. The quality of being alive is unimportant; only the quality of being real is shown to be important by this reasoning.
1.2.2. Con: Such little differences make little difference. They are not worth assigning value to. Living beings' small role in the bigger picture is neither an essential role nor a beneficial role nor therefore a meaningful role.
1.3. Con: The meaning of life is to find meaning in life. Finding purpose to life beyond merely existing has to be the key. It is the only way that we can evolve, from simply 'human' to a true 'human being'.
1.3.1. Pro: The meaning of life is different for everybody.
1.3.1.1. Con: The question of the meaning of life is a general question independent of an individual.
1.3.2. Con: It doesn't matter if human beings come to believe they matter; that can't make them matter.
1.4. Pro: Our thoughts, love and self-awareness are just a sequence of chemical reactions in our brains which help us survive and to produce offspring.
1.4.1. Con: This could be the mechanism through which the meaning of life is expressed.
1.5. Pro: Regardless of what happens, there will eventually be no trace of humanity, so nothing it did will really have mattered.
1.5.1. Con: So what you are saying is that what really matters is the present, therefore we should ignore the future of a dead human race and focus on what is actually happening right now.
1.6. Pro: Any meaning for a living being would have to be self-assigned; no objective meaning can exist for something.
1.7. Con: The meaning of life is procreation.
1.7.1. Con: The opposite is true. Procreation is intended for preserving life. 
At first there was life. It probably happened many times. And at some point there was such a life form that it was able to procreate. Therefore, the meaning of life is not procreation. It is just the means of preserving it.
1.7.1.1. Con: The idea of a life form from the distant past that was unable to procreate is unsubstantiated. Such hypothesis is also illogical. since all life forms we how about have reproductive organs.
1.7.1.1.1. Con: Not all forms of life have reproductive organs, e.g. single celled organisms. First life form was not even a single celullar probably, cells had to evolve from something.
1.7.1.1.1.1. Pro: Cells evolved from protocells, which were basically bubbles of membrane that would split every now and then. According to the current biological definition of "alive", they were not alive, but they did reproduce by binary fission. Reproduction occurred before the first life forms. Those protocells developed from polymers in the environment, semi-uncommonly, and the ones that became most prevalent were the ones that could make more of themselves most easily, which is how life eventually evolved.
1.7.2. Con: People who don't procreate can still have meaningful lives.
1.7.3. Pro: Without procreation, there would be no life.
1.8. Pro: There is little chance that life on earth will survive the end of solar system.
1.8.1. Con: The chances of life outsurviving the solar system does not address the claim of meaning of life.
1.8.2. Con: The solar system will be habitable for billions of years, which is plenty of time for life to develop the technology for interstellar travel.
1.8.2.1. Pro: NASA is already planning an [interstellar mission](https://futurism.com/nasa-planning-first-ever-interstellar-mission/) for 2069.
1.8.2.2. Con: Earth, the only unassistedly habitable planet, will become uninhabitable much sooner, and humans will most likely not escape it before it does.
1.8.2.2.1. Pro: The resources of planet earth are not enough to facilitate space travel for over seven billion people.
1.8.2.2.2. Pro: [The deadline for the climate's "point of no return"](https://www.businessinsider.com/global-warming-point-of-no-return-temperature-2018-8) precedes the first projected interstellar mission, and it will be too difficult to extend the deadline far enough to reach the interstellar mission, especially because relocating funding to extend the deadline will push back the rocket flights.
1.8.3. Pro: Humanity will end with the death of the Sun.
1.8.3.1. Con: Humanity could band together to find a solution. Perhaps this is the true meaning of our existence. To overcome.
1.9. Con: Although there is proof of the stages of evolution, there is no proof of the history of evolution, meaning that we cannot describe any event, before, after, or during, any event before our recorded history. Yes, our species evolved. However, we cannot say how or when, and we certainly can't explain why. If the meaning of life is found in creation, we must not create our ideas of existentialism and evolution. The meaning of life possibly amounts to what you leave behind in this world before death
1.10. Con: The meaning of life is a subjective choice attributed by experience, knowledge, and morals, ex. like an artist gives meaning to paper by painting on it.
1.10.1. Con: Artists do not give meaning to paper by painting on it.
1.10.1.1. Pro: It's just a paper with paint on it in a shape. The shape existed before someone put it on a paper, and the shape will still exist after the painting decays and gets forgotten.
1.10.1.1.1. Con: The paper would have never been significant enough to remember in the first place if it had never been painted on.
1.10.1.2. Pro: Small, impermanent paintings do not have significance in a vast and very long-lived universe.
1.11. Con: We are not intelligent enough to understand the meaning of life.
1.11.1. Pro: The tools we use to determine the meaning of life- science, reason, religion, etc.- are only possible for us to understand through our own minds, which may not be capable of grasping reality.
1.11.2. Con: If nothing can understand the meaning of life, then the meaning of life is only nominal. It would be in all respects as if there was no meaning of life.
1.12. Pro: Our life span is too short to have a meaning which would exceed the purpose of reproduction.
1.12.1. Con: If life has an intrinsic meaning, then the length is irrelevant.
1.12.1.1. Con: In comparison to extremely big things like eternity, extremely small things like a lifetime can never be important because they are too insignificant, easily wiped away or replaced.
1.12.2. Con: -> See 1.7.
1.13. Con: Being alive is a beautiful experience.
1.13.1. Con: This is not true for everybody. Some people die as infants or suffer their entire lives.
1.14. Pro: We are just an autonomous bunch of molecules stuck together which learned how to avoid annihilation.
1.14.1. Pro: Life most likely originated from self-replicating strands of [RNA](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK26876/).
1.14.2. Pro: There are proofs that the ecosystem in which life evolved had the main role in the evolution of the life.
1.14.2.1. Pro: Life most likely [originated](http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2015/03/researchers-may-have-solved-origin-life-conundrum) from of natural, random developments of molecules on the early earth.
1.14.2.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.14.1.