Discussion Title: Transhumanism is the next step in human evolution

1. Transhumanism is the next step in human evolution.
1.1. Con: Transhumanism is the next step in evolution of wealthy humans.  Poor humans will not benefit from it.
1.1.1. Pro: Transhumanism will be \(initially\) available only to the rich, thus expanding the gap between rich and poor. Together with diminishing of the percieved "humanity" of transhumans it will probably lead to war.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Poor people may be neglected if societal enhancements jump exponentially for wealthy. The distance between the wealthy and poor might be so great that the wealthy do not need to associate with poor again and just form their own world \(like in the movie Elysium\).
1.1.1.2. Con: Wealthy people can just make copies of themselves to replace poor people. Then wealthy can isolate themselves from the poor to prevent transhuman war from occurring, because they are near nowhere to be at war with.
1.1.1.2.1. Con: People might find ways to accomplish starting war, no matter how isolated the wealthy become.
1.1.1.3. Con: Without the poor getting enhancements, they probably will not be able to fight with those who have stronger powers than them \(a.k.a. the wealthy\).
1.1.1.4. Con: If the wealthy extend their transhuman capabilities to the poor, the likelihood of war would diminish.
1.1.2. Con: Wealthy people may enhance the poor, because it will benefit them to do so.
1.1.2.1. Pro: The poor will probably be enhanced more than the wealthy, because the poor do difficult jobs that need the most enhancements. The wealthy will like the poor to be more productive and will seek enhancements for them. If the poor can do their jobs better, then companies are more profitable, which allows the wealthy to be richer.
1.1.2.2. Con: -> See 1.1.1.1.
1.1.2.3. Pro: Wealthy people may just want to help the poor for humanitarian value, because it looks good for them to do so or other reasons.
1.1.2.4. Pro: -> See 1.1.1.4.
1.1.3. Con: With the dematerialization and demonetization of advancing technology, the costs to achieve may be so minimal that everyone can get enhancements.
1.1.4. Con: Even if poor humans do not get to be transhuman, they will not need to be jealous or anything do those who do get enhancements. Everyone benefits from transhumanism, regardless of whether people are directly a part of it or not.
1.1.4.1. Pro: The poor may even find a workaround \(due to their drive and wants for transhumanism\), as humans are born with ingenuity, creativity, curiosity, and ambition.
1.1.4.1.1. Pro: Their drive might even lead them to better, as they need to do better than what exists to compete, stay relevant, and make up for what they are missing.
1.1.5. Con: Yesterdays luxuries are commonplace among even the lowest echelons of society today. Cell phones are a good example, which is available to people even in otherwise absolute poverty.
1.1.5.1. Con: Yet consider that dental implants \(the current technique is about 100 years old\) are still out of reach of the poor, even in most countries with universal health care.  There are other elective medical procedures I could list.  Elective nootropics \(even ones older than cell phones\) are out of reach of the poor, because medicaid clinics don't prescribe what the patient asks for. I could go on. Transhuman tech that affects the body is almost always for rich people only.
1.1.6. Pro: There's a risk that this will carve a class system into stone, where the rich enhance their children to so much more able than the children of those who can't afford it that those others can't compete.
1.1.6.1. Con: There is possibility for a [trickle-down effect](https://www.economicshelp.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/12/trickle-down-effect.png), where when the wealthy are [early adopters](http://www.jumpassociates.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/The-Technology-Adoption-Curve-600x462.png), it becomes cheaper and more available for everyone \(unless it's kept exclusive on purpose, which I doubt, because it benefits everyone so much\).
1.1.6.2. Con: The wealthy will get different enhancements than the poor \(maybe the wealthy will get brain enhancers while the poor will get physical ones\). Each side won't be able to compete with each other, because each side is specialized greatly in different areas than normal people cannot compete with.
1.1.6.2.1. Pro: For example, if a poor person \(without brain enhancements\) tried to compete for white collar jobs, they will not be able to, because the ones with brain enhancements will get the jobs. Same with the reverse. A wealthy person will not compete with physical enhancements of the poor when they could just provide them to so many people just through funding it instead.
1.1.6.3. Con: -> See 1.1.2.1.
1.1.7. Con: Enhancing humans is not only for esthetic, intelligence or other superficial uses. It can also be a deal breaker for population who suffers from disease by giving them a better immune system that there children will inherit
1.2. Con: Transhumanism is by definition beyond human, therefore it cannot belong to any human context. Instead of being another step in human evolution, transhumanism is a step in an artificial, non-human one.
1.3. Pro: Human evolution is already not natural, so transhumanism being a non-natural evolutionary advancement will not be anything new.
1.4. Pro: Transhumanism may reduce our demands on the environment,
1.4.1. Pro: For example, transhumanism reduces the need for air conditioning, heating, or human waste disposal, thus saving the planet.
1.5. Con: Transhumanism would be the end of evolution, as it would rely on design as opposed to natural selection of mutated traits.
1.5.1. Con: From the beginning of humanity, humans always find ways to evade evolution and escape natural selection's effects: by inventing medics, prostheses, vaccines, etc. Transhumanism is just another method, nothing different than what we've already achieved in isolating ourselves from evolution to begin with.
1.6. Con: Transhumanism has the potential to rob man of some of the essential human experiences; such as growth through struggle and the sense of individuality by knowing ones personal strengths and weaknesses.
1.7. Pro: Transhumanism allows people to create a world that they want to live in, not limited by or reactive to the pre-setup environment they are born/placed in.
1.7.1. Pro: To start this process, people should be taught deep learning and biology to be skilled workers for collaboratives such as the BRAIN Initiative, not the efforts seen now \(with people playing video games and more\).
1.7.1.1. Pro: Transhumanism could allow humans to create an afterlife for themselves by uploading their minds to the computer and being there after they die.
1.7.1.1.1. Con: This may be difficult, as the architecture of the human brain is different from computers.
1.7.1.1.2. Con: One would have to transfer the information components \(like quantum information\) that make them who they are, which would be difficult to achieve \(like how do you move your soul onto a computer?\).
1.7.2. Con: It's in the nature \( in the very structure of being \) of literally every living being to strive for progression in a limiting world by overcoming the limits that this surrounding world imposes. When all the limits that surround us disappear, their wouldn't be any reasons for our actions anymore and we would get struck with enormous and arguably fatal feelings of meaninglessness, because no living being is build for a limitless world.
1.7.2.1. Con: Transhumanism might counteract this by allowing people to create meaning in such as limitless world.
1.7.2.2. Con: People will still have limits, as there are other factors in life that are limiting, such as time.
1.7.3. Con: Garbage in, garbage out. Since scientists found out and recreated how to [pass on memories through DNA](http://www.bbc.com/news/health-25156510), a sort of DNA memory encoding, it is now possible to implement that with humans \(as it applies to them\). If people apply it to themselves \(such as with CRISPR\), with better health, higher IQ, and overall better quality of life, then [Kevin Warwick](http://www.kevinwarwick.com/)'s concern of superior cyborgs deciding the fate of the unenhanced becomes a concern at the voting booth.
1.8. Pro: Transhumanism would make life easier.
1.8.1. Pro: People would not have to learn for almost two decades if their minds are connected to the internet, memories are genetically enhanced to the point of hyperthymesia, or implants with entire courses on them that are absorbed instantly.
1.8.1.1. Con: Malware and hacking may pose a significant danger to the victims sanity and to their ability to be responsible for their actions.
1.8.1.2. Con: Malware may become a weapons of mass destruction, putting billions of lifes at stake.
1.9. Pro: People would have greater freedom than without it.
1.9.1. Pro: Transhumanism can represent a new life for the disabled. You be you, I be me. If someone is comfortable being a cyborg to live better, be autonomous and have a healthy lifestyle, the choice should be his.
1.9.1.1. Con: People cannot choose to use only stone tools in most modern societies, because they would be outcompeted by people with current technology and couldn't make any money. In the same way, people would not be free to choose weather to become transhumans or not in case it becomes widespread and economically advantageous. Therefore the choice of becoming transhumans would not be exactly free.
1.9.2. Con: People would cease to be people and their value of freedom and other humanitarian values could be destroyed or altered; beyond the realms of what we as traditional humans conventionally think of as freedom, will and consciousness.
1.9.2.1. Pro: Humans will no longer be just human anymore, so the freedoms associated with being human go away. In addition, people have a new body, which has limitations not seen in a human body. Thus, people get hit with 2 limitations simultaneously when they become transhuman.
1.9.2.1.1. Pro: One of these limitations may be robotic body parts breaking down. Human bodies continuously fix themselves, whereas robotic parts, once damaged, need to be replaced.
1.9.2.2. Pro: People may become objectified, because they are not seen as 'humans' but objects if they have a robot body. Thus, they may not get the same rights as when they were human.
1.9.3. Con: While some technologies might increase freedom \(like advanced prosthetics for disabled people\), other may decrease it, depending on implementation. Example: imagine neural chips connecting people into unavoidable social media raging 24/7, easier accessed than ever, which use is so widespread that getting rid of it might be culturally frowned upon or impractical.
1.9.4. Con: Greater freedom doesn't have to be the most important parameter for human progression.
1.9.5. Pro: Humans can take over the decisionmaking that previously fell onto nature. With this step, people will be less dependent on external factors and instead more independent.
1.10. Con: Transhumanism might have unforeseen dangers, because it has never been accomplished on a mass scale.
1.10.1. Con: As all new technologies, its onset will be gradual and it will be initially used on smaller scale, giving as a chance to foresee potential dangers.
1.10.2. Pro: We still have so many unknowns in answering many diseases. Adding a new layer of possible malfunction could make this even worse.
1.10.2.1. Con: Since we might not have to worry about diseases in the future, we could focus our time on solving malfunction issues.
1.10.2.2. Pro: With transhumanism, not only do we have to understand diseases, but we need to find a solution to them through transhumanism. If that's not hard enough, once we solve it, then we face an additional challenge of solving malfunction issues. With all this, it might not be worth getting into a mess unless we really know what we're doing.
1.10.3. Pro: We think of the future with the information we have on the present, a posteriori we see that many unforeseen circumstances shaped the world in a different way. Because we can foresee these technologies, the future will probably be shaped by something else, something unknown that we will not know how to handle.
1.10.4. Pro: If humans are computerized, they may be subject to hacking \(like computer viruses on computers or takeover\).
1.10.4.1. Pro: This is probably where tranhumanism gets scariest, because people's entire body may be hacked and they won't even know about it.
1.10.5. Pro: It can negatively affect our evolution on a long term, especially if it applies to newborns. Transhumanism can cause irreversible changes if we do not take extra care each step of the way.
1.10.6. Con: As we become more transhuman, we will have better capabilities to handle unforseen dangers than before. For example, with the internet, if a car breaks down, we can search for how-to's on solving it. That could not take place before the internet.
1.10.7. Con: If we think about the what-if's beforehand and address them, then there would be no worries on proceeding forward. There is nothing that would be surprising if every potential problem is given a solution through deliberation.
1.10.8. Pro: Transhumanism could be used by governments to control you and/or your mind. Even just by reading your thoughts this could threat everyone who is against a certain system or leader.
1.10.9. Pro: These dangers may be harder to correct, as it is difficult to back to something that is lost \(in this case, humanity\).
1.10.9.1. Con: That may be true on an individual basis \(what's done to an individual may be hard to undo\), but can be done on a broad scale -- taking an alternate path in evolution.
1.10.10. Pro: Physiologically, the human body may reject surgically placed biomechatronic body parts.
1.10.10.1. Con: Implants are already being used for medical purposes without major issues.
1.10.10.2. Con: This is really rare, happening less than [0.1%](https://emedicine.medscape.com/article/1230696-overview) of the time.
1.10.10.2.1. Pro: A [test patch](https://www.depuysynthes.com/patients/aabp/resources/faq/treatment/metal-plate-rejection) may be performed beforehand to look for metal sensitivities to look for other alloys instead for prevention.
1.10.10.2.1.1. Con: If transhumanism becomes commonplace, people might disregard safeguards if people start the process from birth or out of remaining competitive in body parts with others due to the worries of falling behind.
1.10.10.2.1.2. Pro: By the time transhumanism comes out, most likely genetic testing will be advanced enough to discover metal sensitivities before they cause real issues.
1.10.10.2.2. Pro: Even if it occurs, people can get treatment to desensitize their body
1.10.10.3. Con: Enhancements could be placed outside of the body instead of inside \(like an exoskeleton instead of bone replacements\).
1.10.10.4. Con: Transhumanism would one day get advanced enough that surgical rejection is only a problem of the past.
1.10.10.4.1. Pro: People's bodies may be genetically engineered to not have metal sensitivities.
1.10.10.4.2. Pro: People may be genetically engineered to have features that we would need currently surgical implants for.
1.10.10.4.3. Pro: People might end up using materials that no one is sensitive to \(like biomaterials from people's bodies grown/3D printed as enhancements instead of implanting metal\).
1.10.10.4.3.1. Pro: One could imagine that if people need extra arms, that those arms could be grown instead of metal added to the body.
1.10.10.4.3.2. Pro: If 3D printed, people's bodies could be scanned to determine their chemical composition and a printer would only use those materials to build better body parts.
1.10.10.4.3.2.1. Pro: If people want stronger or replacement bones, for example, a 3D printer could print stronger bones from the materials found in bone instead of replacing the bones in the body with metal.
1.10.10.4.4. Pro: Transhumanism could modify body parts to be more accepting of surgical replacements.
1.10.10.4.5. Pro: Cybernetics could get so advanced that people's minds would be uploaded and placed into a mechanical body. There would be no biological material to worry about rejection with.
1.11. Con: People and cultures may be against change, and transhumanism is a large one.
1.11.1. Pro: People have a stigma against eugenics.
1.11.1.1. Con: Eugenics is not an obligatory feature of transhumanism.
1.11.1.1.1. Con: Transhumanism is the justification of eugenics because it is the creation of a superior breed of humans.
1.11.1.1.1.1. Pro: Even without individual people being better than others we have difficulty with genocides and discrimination consuming the world. Transhumanism creates objective changes in humans, leading to objective differences in abilities. To think these objective changes wouldn't replace the perceived differences currently fueling the eugenics movement is contrary to human history.
1.11.1.2. Pro: Eugenics has been used unethically in the past. Transhumanism may resurface these negative practices. Without thinking through how to accomplish going forward with transhumanism without recreating the past, it can possibly lead us a step back instead of a step forward in evolution.
1.11.1.3. Con: Even if humans do not choose transhumanism due to their aversion to eugenics, society and extremists will still happen anyway through genocide and discrimination. In the long term, these events create objective changes and differences between humans, possibly emerging many new human species. Since eugenics is and always was inevitable, we might as well choose transhumanism. At the very least, we can control its outcomes, collectively and positively, not hatefully and negatively.
1.11.2. Con: People and cultures tend to have biases against change, but these have been overcome quite frequently throughout history to a better result.   Some changes that were opposed, but overcome include: Wide-spread printing and reading, views of the universe, understanding anatomy, ending slavery, women's suffrage, the industrial revolution, cars, planes, etc.
1.11.2.1. Con: As transhumanist technology enters the mainstream, the stigma goes away.  Probiotics, for instance, are not stigmatized at all.  SSRIs and braces are only a little stigmatized.  Nobody considers web search to be a stigma, yet it's augmented how we learn and memorize things. Now, people still engage in learning for depth, but never learning for breadth.
1.12. Con: Human interaction partially gets lost in transhumanism, where people are not interacting with "humans" anymore, but humans + something else.
1.12.1. Pro: Human elements \(that are necessary to keep\) could get lost just as easily as cultures during the changes through time.
1.12.2. Con: The transhuman \(or posthuman\) interactions could be better.
1.12.3. Con: While that is possible, we \(humans\) have already accepted dramatic changes to how we interact with one another.   An example of this is watching a group of people sitting together but all of them interacting \(via cell phone\) at a cursory level with yet other people instead of interacting closely with the people around them.
1.13. Con: Artificial Intelligence may spawn a new form of species from the connectivity of humans \(a.k.a. transhumanism\), instead of humans naturally evolving into anything much more complex than they are today
1.13.1. Pro: Those who don't conform would be drastically inferior, both intellectually and physically to those that did. This would likely cause a rift in society. The transhumans would look down upon the humans as the humans do primates. They would be obsolete, and useless to society.
1.13.2. Pro: While humans will surely change through this process, they are not a necessary component for the creation of new AI species.
1.14. Con: Transhumanism has limits to competing with automation and may not be enough in the technological singularity.
1.14.1. Con: Human bodies have specific requirements: food, water, moderate temperature, clean air,... It would be easier to build a robot without those requirements, than freeing transhumans from those requirements.
1.14.1.1. Con: Machines are not as efficient as biological bodies. The amount of power our brain uses about 13 Watts. That is much less, than supercomputer. Maybe machines will never be as efficient.[scientificamerican.com](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/thinking-hard-calories/)
1.14.1.2. Con: Transhumans may one day be robots in the future. We might be able to upload our minds into a computer and download it into a robot. Thus, the human requirements are not an issue, because they might not be around when transhumanism accounts for it.
1.14.1.3. Con: That may be true at some point in the future.   However, taking the alternate \(transhumanism\) route helps keep humans relevant and competitive longer than is otherwise likely.
1.14.2. Pro: Computer and neuroscience technology advanced enough to create humans substantially more advanced than those of today would probably cause an [intelligence explosion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intelligence_explosion) before we have the time to alter humanity much. Thus, the next step is the Singularity, and Transhumanism would have to wait to follow that if at all.
1.14.2.1. Pro: Transhuman technology might arrive too late, where [superintelligence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superintelligence) takes over before people can keep up.
1.15. Con: Many approaches to transhumanism aren't a step in evolution but a replacement for evolution.
1.15.1. Con: I don't think they're a replacement for evolution.   Rather, they present alternate evolutionary paths which are taken by alternative means.
1.15.2. Con: Whether they are a replacement for natural evolution or not, what matters is that betters us as individuals and as a species.
1.15.3. Pro: Evolution is necessarily beneficial, transhumanism is not and the consequences of our errors in this regard might be catastrophic.
1.15.3.1. Con: Evolution is not necessarily beneficial, see "selfish gene" concept. Having more control over development of our species will be beneficial.
1.15.3.2. Con: Evolution has led to the natural extinction of many species, so was clearly not beneficial to them.
1.15.4. Con: Transhumanism is a step in evolution, as it is still selection for survival of the fittest. The only difference is that it is artificial and not natural, because humans can now decide their evolutionary path instead of nature.
1.15.4.1. Con: This presumes that the selection of mates over generations was not "humans deciding"; or that there is anything artificial about human decision. On the contrary, humans deciding what's desirable has guided human evolution up to now.
1.15.5. Pro: Transhumanism could reverse evolution. Artificial enhancement \(that does not affect the DNA\) of people who are, according to their DNA, the least fit, could ensure their survival and procreation \(with bad DNA\), thus reversing evolution.
1.16. Pro: Transhumanism could speed up human evolution, which provides multiple benefits.
1.16.1. Pro: Transhumanism allows for unexpected activity and performance or ability. Yes, a bit like ordinary superheroes.
1.16.1.1. Pro: So law and order should already be thinking about the framework to integrate humans with different degrees of robotisation.
1.16.2. Pro: As we develop new technology, we eventually find a way to incorporate it into our bodies or minds to make them transhuman. This trend already started long ago and will not stop until we achieve the capability altogether in reality.
1.16.2.1. Pro: The trend started non-transhuman technologies like: telephones, clocks/watches, internet, instant messaging, cloud drives, pacemakers, hip replacements, probiotics, insulin pumps, dentures, SSRIs, and more. Bionics and enhancements for lesser-abled could lead to exoskeletons \(with all of these technologies\) for the rest of humanity to acquire transhuman capabilities.
1.16.2.2. Pro: We've been adding extra-genetic/transhuman advantages to our evolution since the invention of writing.  The end of [The Selfish Gene](https://www.amazon.com/Selfish-Gene-Richard-Dawkins/dp/1491514507) describes this in detail.
1.16.3. Con: One way to speed up evolution is to speed up the human reproduction cycle. Transhumanism may be part of this, but the impact could create overpopulation, which could lead to war and disease.
1.16.3.1. Con: In the society which we live in, the average age of death is way past the age of reproduction. Even the weakest have good chance to survive. Then reproduction is no longer a way to evolve for humans.
1.16.4. Pro: Speeding up evolution could fill in the gaps of evolution \(that only got us so far\), such as eliminating genetic diseases.
1.16.5. Pro: Speeding up evolution could help humans keep up with the rapid change in technology. Evolution is not fast enough for the new artificial world.
1.16.5.1. Con: To do this without risking overpopulation the variance in our race from one generation to the next would have to be increased. This risks increasing the incidence of miscarriages and counterproductive results \(within the scope of this discussion, i.e. without making any judgement of those with special needs\).
1.16.6. Pro: Transhumanism could speed up evolution through new technologies like [gene editing](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/02/science/gene-editing-human-embryos.html), [lab-grown babies](http://iflscience.com/health-and-medicine/frozen-ovaries-lab-grown-babies-future-childbirth/), or [in-vitro gametogenesis \(IVG\)](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/02/science/gene-editing-human-embryos.html).
1.16.6.1. Pro: They could allow those with beneficial genes to contribute to the gene pool when they couldn't before, edit out bad parts of genes, or rear children without medical complications.
1.17. Con: Transhumanism appears, at least, to presuppose that an entity can become something other than what it is. It, in other words, presupposes that the universe is contingent with respect to human nature, i.e., that it can change; either randomly \(via evolution\) or by force of human "doing" \(a kind of bootstrapping model\). Consequently, transhumanism presupposes a metaphysics, which requires a defense. But there is no defense presented here. \(For a contrasting worldview see: [en.wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Essentialism)\)
1.17.1. Con: [Mormons advocate for Transhumanism](https://www.mormoninterpreter.com/what-is-mormon-transhumanism-and-is-it-mormon/)
1.18. Pro: This next step is inevitable, so we should proceed with a method to have control over the process.
1.18.1. Pro: -> See discussion #14253: Humans will eventually evolve into machines.
1.18.2. Pro: Humans should merge with AI/robots to keep up with them for the upcoming technological/cybernetic singularities.
1.18.2.1. Pro: Transhuman adaptions, like becoming a cyborg, would help people do better at their jobs.
1.18.2.1.1. Pro: A spy profession is a good example, as they need a sharp eye out and keen ear open to their surroundings. Placing a [camera in a spy's head](http://skewsme.com/tinfoilhat/chapter/brain-implants/2/) would assist with that.
1.18.2.1.2. Pro: This will help people stay relevant in the job market and keep automation at bay.
1.18.2.1.3. Con: Transhumanism's not needed as long as people know how to work with automation to accomplish tasks.
1.18.2.1.3.1. Con: This will only work as long as people are capable of understanding how robots work. Once robots reach a certain point of complexity, humans will need enhancements to work with them.
1.18.2.1.3.1.1. Con: There is no sign at this time that strong AI is feasible, so machines might be able to do self-maintenance, but it is questionable whether they would still rely on human creativity for creating better versions.
1.19. Pro: Transhumanism helps to prevent [existential risk](http://www.x-risk.net/) of [AI takeover](https://www.cser.ac.uk/research/risks-from-artificial-intelligence/) through [existential risk reduction](http://www.existential-risk.org/).
1.19.1. Pro: [Elon Musk's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elon_Musk) [Neuralink](https://www.neuralink.com/) is a prime example of preventing existential risk. The Neuralink enables people to compete with AI by thinking at the same speed as their computation.
1.20. Pro: Transhumanism is already here, and has been since the stone age. Our neuromuscular system trades off strength for increased precision, our hands lack claws or talons. We are already evolved to augment our physical capabilities with technology.
1.20.1. Pro: Transhumanism just continues this innate process
1.20.2. Con: Natural evolution is random chance, synthetic evolution is undertaken to undertake a specific goal and transfer meaning onto a being. This means that the humans who undergo these effects are fundamentally different from other humans. This difference is objective too. Evolution "creates" beings meant to survive the environment they're in, nothing more or less. By changing the meaning evolution bestows, synthetic evolution is clearly different.