Discussion Title: Undocumented immigration into the United States is not a problem

1. Undocumented immigration into the United States is not a problem.
1.1. Pro: Deporting these undocumented immigrants will be a massive cost to the government, so it is better to let them stay.
1.2. Pro: Being undocumented does not necessarily mean that one has done something wrong.
1.2.1. Con: However, in some cases it is better to assume the worst, for the sake of broader public safety.
1.2.1.1. Con: Assuming the worst is detrimental to broader public safety.
1.3. Pro: Undocumented immigrants are less likely to commit crimes than US citizens.
1.4. Con: Accepting undocumented/illegal-immigration undermines the integrity of the legal process and authority of law.
1.5. Pro: Undocumented immigrants primarily only take the jobs that Americans are unwilling to do.
1.5.1. Con: This shouldn't be seen as reason why undocumented immigrants are not a problem. This kind of employment is exploitative, taking advantage of undocumented workers. Thus this is a problem.
1.5.1.1. Con: Taking advantage of undocumented workers is an employer problem, not an undocumented immigration problem.
1.6. Con: Undocumented immigrants are breaking the law by being undocumented, and that is enough of an issue to kick them out.
1.6.1. Con: The mere fact of having broken the law is not, alone, a sufficient reason to consider someone problematic.
1.6.1.1. Con: The situation however, by nature of being in conflict with the law, is a problem.
1.6.1.1.1. Con: Not necessarily. If you went over the speed limit today, you violated the law, but it was not necessarily a problem. Millions of people do this every day, and it is not considered a national problem.
1.6.2. Con: Sometimes laws are inappropriate, and should be changed. So, using this as the basis of why they should leave makes no sense.
1.6.3. Con: Interracial marriage at one point was illegal. That does not mean that it was wrong for people to do it. Just because something is currently illegal does not mean it is wrong.
1.6.3.1. Con: Right or wrong, the functioning of our system of government relies on complying to the law that is passed. Disputes with the law are made through the political process.
1.6.3.1.1. Con: Laws are also challenged through adjudications. To do so, the law may need to be violated \(e.g. Minoru Yasui breaking curfew\). In this way, violating the law is not necessarily a problem.
1.6.3.1.2. Con: The overall topic is whether or not undocumented immigration is problematic, and just how we are not up in arms over people jaywalking or speeding, we do not need to view undocumented immigration as a problem \(even though it is not complying with the process\).
1.7. Pro: Undocumented immigrants pay taxes and contribute to the economy.
1.8. Con: Undocumented immigrants are taking resources away from US citizens.
1.8.1. Con: No negative effects on overall wages and employment of native-born workers in the longer term [was found by research.](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/22/us/immigrants-arent-taking-americans-jobs-new-study-finds.html)
1.8.2. Con: These immigrants are estimated to yield long term profit, thus they should be seen as an investment.
1.9. Con: Not cracking down on undocumented immigration makes it easier for terrorists to enter our country.
1.9.1. Con: Known terrorist threats don't require immigration to carry out terrorism. There are easier and less risky ways for them to commit terrorism.
1.10. Pro: If people are trying to flee the dangerous countries they are from, it should not be so difficult for them to get into and stay in the US.
1.10.1. Con: Rather than emigrating undocumented, they should seek asylum and refugee status for according to the UNHCR, states have an obligation to not return individuals "where they face serious threats to their life or freedom." Seeking asylum is different than immigration.
1.11. Pro: Undocumented immigrants contribute to a richer culture and biodiversity.