Discussion Title: US Senators Should No Longer Be Elected by Popular Vote

1. U.S. Senators should no longer be elected by popular vote.
1.1. Pro: As it stands, we effectively have two Houses of Representatives. This is redundant and unnecessary.
1.1.1. Con: The key goal of the Senate was to have two places where legislation can pass through: one where the population of the state matters because that determines how many representatives are available for the state, and one where each state is on equal voting. This goal is still met if the people elect their Senators.
1.2. Con: Abandoning the direct election of senators would magnify the impact of aggressive gerrymandering.
1.3. Con: Choosing Senators by way of legislatures make State elections very complicated. Changing a single Senator becomes a matter of changing the makeup of an entire State legislature.
1.4. Con: People would feel they had less representation in their government.
1.4.1. Con: They would have the same level of influence over their senators as they would over the laws their state legislature passes. Many people may feel that a small diminution in representation is worth whatever benefits accrue from repealing the 17th Amendment.
1.5. Con: State legislatures picking Senators leads to corruption.
1.5.1. Con: While there are many forms of corruption, the most pressing form today is the out-sized influence of expenditures by super PACs. Today a super PAC seeking to influence a senator need only direct its spending for/against that senator. Repealing 17A would force super PACs seeking to influence a senator to direct their spending for/against a larger number of state representatives; thereby raising the cost of influencing elections and diluting the power of the super PAC.
1.6. Pro: States have no voice in the national government, breaking federalism.
1.6.1. Con: If this were true, repealing the 17th would not be a cure. A "state's voice" is no better represented by a senator selected by a majority of that state's legislature than is a senator selected by a majority \(or at least plurality\) of that state's citizens.
1.7. Con: When we used state legislature selection of Senators, some seats went unfilled while state officials argued over who should fill the seat.
1.7.1. Con: An empty seat would effectively be an abstention on any vote in the senate. An abstention - rather than a "yes" or "no" vote - would accurately reflect the position of a state too indecisive to select a senator.
1.7.2. Con: These unfilled seats were, typically, the result of split representation within the state legislature, with the state "house" being controlled by one party and the state senate by another \(Nebraska excepted\). This resulted in a stalemate and inability for the two houses to agree on a US Senator. This could be easily fixed by assigning each house responsibility for one of the state's US Senators \(again except in Nebraska due to thier state legislature being unicameral\).
1.8. Con: There are more timely and important issues to tackle in our modern society than procedural matters such as this.
1.8.1. Pro: Problems like gun control seem more immediate.
1.8.2. Con: Today's Congress seems singularly inept at crafting solutions to important issues. If Congress is unable to find solutions to important issues, it is wise to change the way Congress operates - through procedural matters - in the hopes of giving Congress the tools to solve the important issues it is currently failing to address.
1.9. Pro: This would help to "localize" the national government by giving power to representatives that are closer to the local level.
1.9.1. Pro: Governmental figures would be more representative of their constituents, rather than arguing abstractly.
1.10. Pro: Fighting in the Senate would be reduced, as Senators would be more like agents of the 50 states. They would be directed by their states, to act in the best interest of each state.
1.10.1. Con: Being elected by the people does not make Senators less like agents of the states. It's just a matter of who is making the ultimate decision.
1.10.2. Con: More likely, they would be agents of the state government officials, not of the state as a whole or the people of that state.
1.10.3. Con: This is optimistic; individuals will still usually have their own agendas, even if they are supposedly there as agents of the states.
1.10.4. Pro: A small group of state legislators will be best positioned to accurately determine whether a senator's actions are consistent with the best interests of the state. The general public seems likely to attach excessive weight to a senator's position on certain hot-button issues with much publicity but little impact, as opposed to more mundane issues that are ignored but affect the lives of a state's citizens to a much larger degree.