Discussion Title: Using police dogs is wrong

1. Using police dogs is wrong
1.1. Pro: If a person is killed by a police dog, then the family of the victim will not be able to have closure by watching an officer face consequence as they would do in other circumstances
1.1.1. Con: The dog is trained to not kill the person they are after. More than likely the person is going to have a couple of bite marks from where the dog bit them.
1.1.2. Pro: They may not be able to get any economic compensation either.
1.1.2.1. Con: If it is a police dog, the police department will pay compensation if a judge determines so.
1.2. Con: Using the dogs in a dangerous situation is putting the cops in a better situation. Lets say the person has taken off and is refusing to listen having the dog in that situation is better for both the cop and civilians in the area.
1.3. Pro: Animals cannot give consent to work.
1.3.1. Con: They cannot consent to being taken care of, including being given shelter or food, and yet they do.
1.4. Con: As much as humans need to work in order to earn their bread, it is also fair that dogs also work for the care and food they receive at the police center.
1.5. Pro: Putting an animal's life in danger is unethical
1.5.1. Pro: Dogs cannot consent to the risk posed by being part of the police force. They should not be put in danger when they can't understand the danger
1.5.2. Pro: Criminals are more likely to kill a police dog than a human police officer
1.6. Con: Police dogs are a necessary part of the police force. Without them, many criminals would not be caught
1.7. Pro: Dogs have the potential to act unpredictably in specific scenarios. The police should not use an unpredictable asset
1.7.1. Pro: Attack dogs are excessive for apprehending fleeing suspects. They easily maim and severely injure suspects with no regard for excessive use of force.
1.7.2. Con: Police dogs undergo rigorous training to ensure they always follow the commands of their owner/handler
1.8. Con: The dogs are typically well looked-after, potentially better than other dogs are by regular pet-owners
1.8.1. Con: There are [instances](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n2XhRDu7kMU) where certain trainers abuse the dogs being trained