Discussion Title: Video games are the best source of entertainment

1. Video games are the best source of entertainment
1.1. Con: Most if not all games require a monetary investment that hinders players.
1.1.1. Con: Almost all entertainment requires some monetary investment.
1.1.2. Con: Many platforms offer free-to-play or outright free games
1.1.3. Pro: As technology has developed, so too have pay-to-win games.
1.1.4. Con: The return on investment for gaming entertainment is much higher than other forms of entertainment.
1.2. Pro: Video games create active participation rather than passive absorption of material.
1.2.1. Pro: Active participation allows for a deeper, more enriching experience.
1.2.1.1. Pro: For example, in RPG/RPG-syle games, your actions and choices can create a unique story line or even a particular in-game social, political, economic, or cultural climate.
1.2.2. Pro: This translates into use of your mental and physical faculties, which can create significant benefits.
1.2.2.1. Con: Sitting on a chair and playing a video game doesn't use much physical faculties \(except those of your fingers\). Playing a real life game, such as football, basketball and the likes, gives much better results in developing physical faculties.
1.2.2.1.1. Con: There are a range of video games in which physical effort is required, still allowing for physical exercise though in an especially entertaining way.
1.2.2.1.2. Con: Even playing a sedentary video game causes one to use more energy than, say, reading a book or watching television.
1.2.3. Pro: Playing video games can [increase](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-athletes-way/201310/video-gaming-can-increase-brain-size-and-connectivity) brain size and connectivity.
1.2.4. Con: Passive absorption can be just as entertaining, as one gets to relax as they enjoy.
1.2.5. Con: Thesis implies that 'active participation' is unquestionably better than 'passive absorption'; in truth, depth of involvement in entertainment medium is a matter of personal preference.
1.3. Con: Experiences created by somebody \(the game designer\) are not up to experiences you make in real life
1.3.1. Con: All forms of entertainment have this same drawback.
1.3.1.1. Pro: Many entertainment sources use an element of imagination and fantasy to exaggerate reality.
1.3.1.2. Con: Active forms of entertainment \(sports, hiking etc.\) are exactly matching reality, because they are performed in reality.
1.3.2. Con: Sometimes it's nice to take a break and delve into someone else's mind.
1.3.3. Pro: Real life experiences involve all physical senses, while video games are limited to sight and hearing.
1.3.3.1. Con: But for some, this may mean that video games are far more accessible than other real life experiences.
1.3.3.2. Con: Some real life experiences only require sight and hearing, such as watching a movie or sporting event.
1.3.3.3. Con: This may change as technology progresses. Some video games now feature [tactile senses](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UaWZpRsyZ74) as well.
1.3.4. Pro: Characters in a video game can only respond to some of your actions that the game designer expected. If you play in an unexpected manner, the reaction of the characters won't be adapted.
1.3.5. Con: Some people don't have, however, the imagination or courage to set off on an epic story of their own creation, so they leave it to people who do to set one up for them.
1.4. Pro: Video games allow for an escape from reality which may help reduce stress.
1.4.1. Con: Movies, books, and television can also provide a break from reality.
1.4.1.1. Con: Video games often provide a more immersive experience, enhancing the escape value to a point beyond other forms of entertainment.
1.4.2. Con: Playing video games keeps the brain in constant activity, which is a form of stress. We don't feel it as such because we are blinded by the feeling of satisfaction that the game produces, but in fact the brain is stressed by this activity.
1.4.2.1. Pro: [Video games](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/mental-wealth/201609/is-your-childs-brain-video-games) has shown to be over-stimulating for the brain, causing a flight or flight response from the sympathetic nervous system in children. This is a stress response.
1.4.2.1.1. Pro: [Overstimulation](https://anxietyboss.com/can-video-games-trigger-an-adrenaline-response/) from the sympathetic nervous system can lead to excessive adrenaline activity, resulting in increased anxiety, restlessness, irritability, muscle tension, and disruptive appetite to name a few responses.
1.4.2.2. Con: Any sort of activity can cause stress to the brain or body; Reading can stress your eyes, for example. This may be a matter of excessive play.
1.4.3. Con: Escaping from reality, when in inappropriate moments \(such as at work\) or when done too often or for a too long time, has negative consequences in your life.
1.4.3.1. Con: Only if done in an out of control fashion, at which point it is an addiction, with the obvious negative connotations.
1.4.4. Pro: Games provide opportunities to complete immersive and often meditative tasks.
1.4.4.1. Con: These tasks can be completed without meditation.
1.4.4.1.1. Con: Meditation on its own is not a source of entertainment.
1.4.4.1.2. Con: Completing the tasks is itself the [meditation](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/meditate).
1.4.5. Pro: Games can provide an opportunity to be in a position of power, which is refreshing in a reality that often makes you feel powerless, if not almost completely helpless.
1.4.6. Con: Nature can offer an escape from present realities.
1.4.6.1. Con: Nature cannot provide the same escape experience as video games.
1.4.6.1.1. Pro: Video games require almost complete mental immersion, whereas one can engage nature but still have to confront one's own thoughts and the world's problems.
1.4.6.2. Con: This is assuming you have a relatively close nature resort/park/area you won't get bored fast off.
1.5. Pro: Video games are useful to learn about history, society, economics or other aspects important to life.
1.5.1. Con: Other games have altered history that can distort facts just as much.
1.5.1.1. Pro: [Assassin's Creed](http://www.ign.com/articles/2015/01/19/the-history-of-the-world-according-to-assassins-creed) is one such game that depicts certain historical events and characters differently than what is presented in history lessons.
1.5.2. Pro: The Civilization series teaches about the names of cities, wonders and ancient civilizations and their leaders.
1.5.2.1. Con: The shallow library of information attached to one game does not support the base argument. This is a red herring argument that asks the user to assume all games share this one characteristic. They do not.
1.5.3. Pro: At least[one study](http://www.academia.edu/6347993/The_Real_Economics_in_a_Virtual_World) has been done on the economics of World of Warcraft.
1.5.3.1. Con: Eve has a staff economist with a PhD in economics... Just because a thing is studied does not make it better or worse than anything else. This is a non-sequitur argument that doesn't speak to the entertainment value of video games.
1.5.3.1.1. Con: The debate overall is not about pure "entertainment value."
1.5.3.1.2. Con: The parent grandparent of this claim is providing evidence for the top level claim- it does not itself need to prove that video games are the best.
1.5.4. Pro: War games can often reflect on the horrors of war through gripping, immersive stories.
1.5.4.1. Con: The horrors of war come from being in a war, not watching sprites die on your screen.
1.5.4.1.1. Con: The grandparent of this claim does not suggest the source of the horrors of war, but rather where a source of reflection of those horrors can happen in a compelling manner.
1.5.5. Pro: Role Playing Games tend to force you to make ethical decisions, helping you develop and exercise your own moral compass and decision-making processes.
1.5.5.1. Con: Moral decisions made in game are often not applicable in reality.
1.5.5.1.1. Con: Even if they're not directly applicable to reality, those decisions and in-game situations can further an individual's understanding of their own moral and ethical codes. That understanding is inherently valuable.
1.5.5.1.2. Con: It is precisely because the games are not necessarily applicable to reality that they help exercise one's moral compass and philosophy.
1.5.5.1.3. Con: While the exact situations may not directly reflect reality, one can still glean generally applicable principles that can be applied to real-world scenarios.
1.5.5.2. Con: Oversimplification of moral decisions into oversimplified binary choices may actually stunt emotional growth in the player and cause a false expectation that all choices are that straightforward.
1.5.5.2.1. Con: Many Role Playing Games provide sufficient complexity and engagement that the player either has more than two choices or to force the player to engage in complex considerations before choosing between the two choices.
1.5.6. Con: Few, if any games to date have accurately depicted history, and to suggest otherwise is disingenuous. Games do not provide much if any supporting information for the user on these historical topics... the idea that the Hittities had cool bows doesn't make Age of Empires a historical documentary, and portraying multiple cultures progressing along the same technology path is even more inaccurate.
1.6. Con: Many games are intended for mature audiences, potentially limiting their usefulness.
1.6.1. Con: Minors still have a variety to choose from.
1.6.2. Con: This can be said for many other entertainment mediums as well, even paintings.
1.6.3. Con: The rating systems in place are largely ignored by the majority of buyers.
1.7. Pro: Video games provide an outlet for frustrations.
1.7.1. Pro: Video games provide a fantasy world, where one can interactively escape their own for a time.
1.7.2. Con: Doesn't prove video games are the best, there might be better sources of entertainment that allow to vent emotional pressure.
1.8. Pro: Video games may be played socially or alone, increasing their use.
1.8.1. Con: This is not unique to videos games. Television can be watched socially or alone as well.
1.8.1.1. Con: Watching television socially requires diverting attention from the primary source, interrupting the entertainment with social commentary/interaction.
1.8.2. Pro: The variety allows introverts a possible link into society, with as much or little interaction as they desire.
1.8.2.1. Con: When describing 'best' for an entire population, one can not arrive at the decision by how it may favor a subset of that population unless you determine that: The subset is a majority of the total population, The statement is provably and demonstrably true, and no other activity can serve the purpose to the same degree. This comment does none of the three.
1.9. Con: Video games could cause addiction.
1.9.1. Con: This is still a highly debated [topic](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/media-spotlight/201308/are-video-games-addictive).
1.9.2. Con: Everything that gives pleasure is addictive in the view of neurosciences. This criterion doesn't imply that something is wrong.
1.10. Con: Gaming platforms also may allow the harassment or griefing of players.
1.10.1. Con: Game developers are actually better at stopping some forms of harassment due to censure algorithms and restrictive technologies than other traditional sports.
1.10.2. Con: Such may also be said in the arena of sports or any other entertainment involving multiple people
1.11. Con: Entertainment value is subjective and therefore cannot accurately be measured or compared.
1.12. Con: Entertainment provided by video games is limited to the scope of the game, with little use or 'value' beyond the playing of the game. Other diversions such as playing an instrument, creating art, cooking, etc. provide skills \(value that can result in entertainment\) that can be used without a console or game-player.