Discussion Title: Video games with a pixel art-style are overdone.

1. Video games with a pixel art-style are overdone.
1.1. Pro: Yes, with technology and better graphics, people want to feel like the game has been created through hard work.
1.1.1. Con: There are very few people who genuinely care about the work that has gone into a game.
1.2. Con: Pixel-art games are, in general, cheaper than hyper-realistic games; as such, they have broader appeal.
1.3. Con: Pixel art is an easy alternative for game developers that work with a small budget and aren't much of an artist themselves.
1.4. Con: With today's gaming technology, pixel art-style games are often a artistic choice rather than a technical limitation. It is invalid to imply pixel art-style games are more prevalent than 3D games, so in that sense they aren't really overdone when comparing to the non pixel art games.
1.5. Con: From an artistic point of view I think it's not, just classic gaming lovers interacting with each other, so gamers are just enjoying the kind of games they love as much as they can.
1.6. Pro: Today's technology makes the art-style redundant.
1.6.1. Pro: Only having pixel graphics is to completely ignore some amazing video game innovations; we shouldn't be going backwards.
1.6.1.1. Con: It's not about going backward : developing pixel-art games doesn't prevent us from developing realistic games.
1.6.2. Con: There is no obligation to use new technology; retro-style gaming will always have a following.
1.6.3. Con: Art-style, being a creative choice, cannot really become redundant. It can become less popular in the mainstream market, but as with all art forms, there are always a small group that appreciate and enjoy a less popular style.
1.7. Pro: There is only so much you can do with pixel graphics. The art-style is limiting and stops innovation.
1.7.1. Con: That hasn't stopped years of games with pixel graphics being very successful.
1.7.2. Con: Pixel art brings with it limitation that encourages creative solutions.
1.7.2.1. Pro: Pixel art has evolved a lot since it's heyday. New technology opens new and exciting ways to expand the style.
1.8. Pro: Triple-A developers don't usually make pixel art games for a reason. It's simply no longer popular.
1.8.1. Con: Many pixel-art games come out and recieve great succes. The demand for pixel games is not dying.
1.9. Con: An art-style can never truly be overdone. There are always new possibilities to discover.
1.10. Pro: Realistic graphics sell better.
1.10.1. Pro: The rise of virtual reality in video games is evidence enough for this.
1.10.2. Con: The two most sold videogames of all times are Tetris \(170 million sold copies\) and Minecraft \(144 million sold copies\)
1.10.3. Con: [Minecraft](http://time.com/28891/minecraft-is-still-generating-insane-amounts-of-cash-for-developer-mojang/) is still generating revenue for Mojang.