Discussion Title: Was the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) Order 1000 necessary?

1. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission \(FERC\) Order 890 was sufficient and did not need to be reformed by Order 1000.
1.1. Con: Inadequate transmission planning and cost allocation processes have impeded the development of transmission infrastructure.
1.1.1. Pro: Senators Dorgan and Reid state that better coordination of regional transmission planning and clarifying cost allocation are two important steps in overcoming hurdles to developing the nation’s vast renewable energy resources and providing clean energy jobs.
1.1.2. Pro: National Grid contends that the creation of a robust transmission system is imperative to achieving important policy goals, environmental objectives, market efficiencies, and the integration of renewable and distributed resources into electric power markets.
1.1.3. Pro: NextEra agrees on reply that there is a need for generic reform at this time, stating that there is a sufficient basis for the Commission to proceed with a rulemaking proceeding and that there is ample evidence of the pressing need to enhance the transmission grid.
1.1.3.1. Pro: NextEra states that the Proposed Rule demonstrates how and why existing transmission planning and cost allocation rules are inadequate.
1.1.4. Pro: Colorado Independent Energy Association states that, in WestConnect, regional transmission providers are not ignoring the problem of transmission constraints, but that development of transmission facilities is not being undertaken and, second, transmission facilities are not being properly sized.
1.1.4.1. Pro: The problems can be traced to the absence of cost allocation methods or the lack of means for identifying the most needed projects and pursuing them to completion.
1.1.5. Pro: Iberdrola Renewables contends that the lack of transmission expansion in the MISO has led to significant congestion in areas with extensive operating wind generation.
1.1.5.1. Pro: Iberdrola Renewables states that MISO has reported that wind curtailments primarily caused by congestion averaged five percent for the first six months of 2010 compared with 2 percent on average in 2009.
1.1.5.2. Pro: Exelon adds that the lack of coordination between the MISO and PJM transmission planning regions has resulted in a significant increase in the out-of-merit dispatch of generation on the Commonwealth Edison system to maintain NERC reliability requirements.
1.1.5.2.1. Pro: Exelon states that these events have increased from 31 in 2006 to 280 in 2009, and they result in higher costs on the system and excessive wear and tear on equipment.
1.1.6. Pro: Brattle Group states that it has identified approximately 130 mostly conceptual and often overlapping planned transmission projects throughout the country with a total cost of over $180 billion.27  It contends that a large portion of these projects will not be built due to overlaps and deficiencies in transmission planning and cost allocation processes.
1.1.6.1. Pro: Brattle Group states that many of the benefits associated with economic and public policy projects are difficult to quantify and, without changes to transmission planning and cost allocation processes, many of these projects may fail to gain the needed support for approval, permitting, and cost recovery.
1.1.7. Con: Proposed Rule is not supported by substantial evidence.
1.1.8. Con: By reducing the construction of Transmission infrastructure a decentralized energy production is furthered.
1.1.9. Pro: Transmission Dependent Utility Systems state that they support the primary objective of the Proposed Rule to correct deficiencies in transmission planning and cost allocation processes so that the transmission grid can better support wholesale markets and ensure that jurisdictional services are provided at rates, terms, and conditions that are just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential.
1.1.10. Pro: Exelon argues that the current system of disconnected priorities and mixed criteria is simply not working.
1.1.11. Pro: Pennsylvania PUC encourages the Commission to eliminate the current uncertainty regarding planning and paying for future transmission expansion and upgrades.
1.1.12. Pro: MidAmerican adds that transmission has grown from an industry sector focused on rebuilds, reliability improvements on existing infrastructure, and construction of generation-dependent interconnection facilities, to one where new and upgraded transmission infrastructure is necessary to effectuate the expansion of regional power markets.
1.1.12.1. Pro: Promote a more reliable transmission system, accommodate increasing reliance on renewable generation sources, and address the uncertainty of the future role of existing conventional generation.
1.1.13. Pro: AWEA contends that existing processes for planning and paying for transmission are not sufficient to meet the emerging challenges to the transmission system.
1.1.13.1. Pro: AWEA argues that many cost allocation methodologies, as they are applied today, are flawed, which together with the fragmented and short-term transmission planning regimes prevalent today, have often stifled investment in, or otherwise led to the inefficient use and inadequate expansion of the nation’s transmission network.
1.2. Con: Order 1000 improves coordination between neighboring transmission planning regions.
1.3. Pro: Order 890 left it to the transmission providers which investments identified in a transmission plan. This allowed for more flexibility.
1.4. Pro: Order 1000 improves [cost allocation methods](https://www.ferc.gov/industries/electric/indus-act/trans-plan.asp) by requiring every public utility transmission provider to participate in the process.