Discussion Title: Was it right to charge Mark Meechan for his video?

1. Charging Mark Meechan for his [video](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-glasgow-west-43864133) was the right thing to do.
1.1. Pro: It is against the [law](http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2003/21/section/127) in the UK to broadcast "grossly offensive" messages on a public network.
1.1.1. Con: The law that was used to charge Mark Meechan is vague, and open to be abused in order to violate freedom of speech. It needs to be clarified or eliminated.
1.1.1.1. Con: "Freedom of speech" as it is commonly understood is an American ideal, and has been primarily used to prop up countless hate groups. While the democratic ideal of the freedom to express a political viewpoint or opinion is an ancient one, it has not historically extended to protecting hate speech outside of the USA and to change that now would be a step backwards, not forwards.
1.1.2. Con: Prince Harry dressed up like a Nazi for halloween one year, by this logic he should be charged as well.
1.1.2.1. Con: Prince Harry didn't do this on a public network, which is one of the prerequisites for this law to take effect. It was done in private, and leaked to the public.
1.1.2.2. Con: The fact that someone should have been charged for a crime, does not in any way invalidate the legitimacy of someone else charged for an 'arguably' similar crime. In the spirit of justice and fairness, both should be charged.
1.1.3. Pro: Many people do not realize that when they post on social media, they are not merely "speaking" but in fact broadcasting. The laws surrounding broadcast decency apply.
1.1.4. Con: While grossly offensive messages may be illegal in the UK, they should not be. The only type of language that should be banned is language that has a reasonable likelihood to hurt people.
1.2. Pro: The Nazi salute may be offensive to everyone who suffered under the Nazi regime.
1.2.1. Pro: In this day and age we are seeing a sharp rise of far-right, and neo-nazi groups. Many of these groups hide behind well phrased rhetoric, and the guise of humour or trolling. We need to send a strong message that Nazis will not be tolerated, even as a joke.
1.2.2. Con: Neither proximity nor witness to the Holocaust necessitates taking offense from a Nazi salute.
1.2.3. Con: Those who joke about the nazis and the holocaust, are the ones who can't take the nazi ideology seriously. And that attitude should be the ultimate goal to reach about racism.
1.2.4. Con: If we were to ban offensive behaviour, that would mean the abolishment of free speech.
1.3. Con: The nature of the conviction is not to punish him, but to have people stifling there own free speech or face a fine for speaking \(rightly or wrongly as given time those meaning will change\).
1.3.1. Con: Technically, any crime conviction dissuades potential criminals of committing a crime, even if that is not the primal intention.
1.3.2. Con: Judge' intent is to apply the law. If something is considered punishable, as it is against the law, judges must convict, otherwise they would be committing a crime, judicial malfeasance.
1.3.3. Pro: Laws that result in people self-censoring are a threat to free speech.
1.3.3.1. Con: Libel laws, official secrets and broadcast content rules all result in self-censorship but have not proven to be a threat to freedom of speech.
1.3.3.2. Con: If a country decides to limit free speech legislatively \(laws regarding hate speech, for example\), it may be good that people are able to self-censor.
1.3.4. Con: Deterrence is a standard part of the law.
1.4. Pro: Nazism and its ideals should not be tolerated, even if justified as satire.
1.4.1. Con: Humour is coping mechanism and thus one should be able to make fun of Nazism.
1.4.1.1. Con: Making fun of Nazis, the perpetrators of genocide, is not the same as trivialising genocide or making fun of the victims.
1.4.2. Con: The whole point of a satire is to disapprove with an ideology by  portraying a radical aspect of it. Your point is suggesting we should not portray the ideology, only to condemn it. That leads to authoritarian opinion-forming.
1.5. Pro: The UK has laws against [hate speech](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hate_speech_laws_in_the_United_Kingdom).
1.5.1. Con: Comedy should not be considered a hate crime.
1.5.2. Con: Hate speech is too undefined as what is and isn't considered hateful is subjective to each individual. If what constitutes a crime is subjective then it is not a legal or fair crime.
1.5.3. Con: As per UK Hate Crime legislation, intent is a key factor, and freedom of expression and commentary is protected. His acts were intended as comedy and in no way intended to incite violence or hatred, and is thus protected.
1.5.3.1. Con: He was actually [charged](http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2003/21/section/127) for broadcasting "grossly offensive" messages on a public network.
1.5.3.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.3.
1.6. Con: The context in which the video was made has been misrepresented and it did not intend to be offensive.
1.6.1. Pro: The context of the video has been ignored. Meechan has stated that the intention of the video was to [annoy](https://edition.cnn.com/2018/03/22/opinions/teaching-girlfriends-dog-the-nazi-salute-not-a-crime-randazza/index.html) his girlfriend and to share a private joke between friends, not to promote Antisemitism or violence toward Jewish people or other minorities.
1.6.1.1. Con: It cannot be a private joke when it is uploaded to YouTube to be shared and is viewed by millions of people.
1.6.1.2. Con: -> See 1.1.3.
1.6.1.3. Con: This argument is undermined by the fact that he then broadcast this "private joke" to the world and attempted to monetize it.
1.6.2. Con: Intentions when committing a crime may be irrelevant.
1.6.3. Con: Not knowing that something is a crime or doing something expecting a different outcome, does not make someone committing a crime, innocent.
1.6.4. Pro: Meecham's video was victimless \(aside from his girlfriend\), and therefore the application of law was petty, tyrannical, and worked to legitimize the shutdown of similar humor.
1.6.4.1. Con: Making a joke of the mass murder of people's families is not a victimless crime.
1.6.5. Pro: Regardless of what was said, to disregard context and intent is an incredibly dangerous precedent to set.
1.6.5.1. Con: It does not appear that the context was ignored. In fact at the trial it was explored in some detail: [www.scotland-judiciary.org.uk](http://www.scotland-judiciary.org.uk/8/1962/PF-v-Ma)
1.7. Con: [Getting over trauma](https://www.helpguide.org/articles/ptsd-trauma/traumatic-stress.htm) is a mentally healthy and socially superior alternative to demanding the rest of society be punished for an individual's experiences.
1.7.1. Con: The video may have caused psychological harm to those with PTSD or other trauma from suffering under the Nazi regime.
1.7.2. Con: There is no right to force medical treatment on people to make others more comfortable or free to act a certain way around them.
1.8. Con: What Mark Meechan did does not constitue hate speech.
1.8.1. Con: Publicly stating "Burn the jews" is a call to action, and could call people to violence whether intended or not.
1.8.2. Con: What constitutes hate is speech in a democratic country is for a court to decide. In this case, Airdrie Sheriff Court found him [guilty](http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-scotland-glasgow-west-43478925) of committing a hate crime.
1.8.3. Pro: "Hate crime" disingenuously-yet-strongly suggests that "hate" is a necessary component, however Meecham does not demonstrate hatred for jews.
1.8.4. Pro: Mark Meechan is obviously not racist. He is juxtaposing a cute animal with the most horrible thing he could think of in order  to irritate his girlfriend, in this case Nazis. The joke itself is a condemnation of Nazis, as the most vile thing he could think of.
1.8.4.1. Con: Regardless of what someone personally identifies as and believes in, broadcasting a message that can instill racial hatred is considered hate speech.
1.8.4.2. Pro: The [animal](https://nationalpost.com/opinion/christie-blatchford-the-state-of-free-speech-dogs-nazi-salute-deemed-a-hate-crime) reacts to the voice and mannerisms, but not to what is being said.
1.8.4.3. Con: By that logic, anyone could use very offensive hate-speech arguing that it was irony or a joke.
1.8.5. Con: The English Defence League \(A far right group\) came to Meechan's defense. This indicates that his intentions may not have been purely satire.
1.8.5.1. Con: Meechan did not associate himself with the English Defence League voluntary. The fact that they spoke in support of him is completely out of his control.
1.9. Con: Criminalizing jokes is an attack on freedom.
1.9.1. Con: Every law is an attack on freedom. But we need to have a few guidelines if we want to live in society.
1.9.2. Pro: [This man](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jackie_\(dog\)) in 1941 also trained his dog to raise his paw to give a Hitler salute, he got summoned to the German embassy, investigated and questioned, but wasn't arrested or convicted for offending the Nazis with this joke. He escaped punishment after three months of investigations because of the lack of witnesses.
1.9.2.1. Pro: When a joke that gets you investigated and questioned by actual Nazis, also gets you arrested in a supposedly liberal nation, and then actually convicted for it, then you know it's dangerously close to not being a liberal nation anymore.
1.9.2.2. Pro: When jokes are criminalized then you know you live in a nation dangerously close to facism.
1.9.3. Pro: If we require the government to protect us from jokes, we will become weak.
1.9.3.1. Con: If we allow individuals to do as they please, society may turn into chaos.
1.9.3.2. Con: Refusing fascism in any form is not a sign of weakness but strength.