Discussion Title: Was Stephon Clark at fault for being shot by the Sacramento PD?

1. Stephon Clark is primarily at fault for being shot by police.
1.1. Con: The officers should not have opened fire on Clark because he did not pose a threat to them.
1.1.1. Con: The officers behavior and words at the time of the incident clearly show they believed he had a gun.
1.1.1.1. Con: 'Believed' and 'knew' are separate things. Police should not have opened fire until there was genuine certainty.
1.1.1.1.1. Con: "Genuine certainty" is not the legal standard that anyone is held to in self defense.
1.1.1.1.2. Con: Waiting until you are absolutely certain that you are being fired on before defending yourself means that your will not have a chance to defend yourself.
1.1.1.1.3. Con: "Believed" may not be the same as "knew," but people have no real way to distinguish between what they believe they know and what they correctly know.
1.1.2. Con: Given the time of day and the situation, it was reasonable for officers to believe Clark had a gun.
1.1.2.1. Pro: It was dark, making it difficult to distinguish what Clark was holding.
1.1.2.2. Pro: The officers believed they were pursuing someone who was breaking into cars and houses, thus someone likely to be armed, dangerous, or under the influence of drugs.
1.1.3. Pro: No reports indicated that the suspect they were chasing had anything other than a crowbar.
1.1.3.1. Con: Reports from witnesses are always missing information.  The fact that someone is not reported to be armed does not indicate that they are not armed.
1.2. Pro: Stephon Clark’s poor choices when confronted by police led directly to his shooting.
1.2.1. Pro: Stephon Clark raised his arm in the direction of the officers while holding a cellphone, leading them to believe he had a gun.
1.2.1.1. Con: Clark may have been trying to raise his hands at the time.
1.2.1.2. Con: There is no video evidence of arm movement on the [frame-by-frame](http://lolkje.cloudaccess.host/?p=66).
1.2.1.2.1. Con: The video is not clear enough to distinguish small movements.
1.2.1.3. Pro: Failing to comply with the officers orders caused the need to pursue the suspect. The pursuit created uncertainty, confusion and adrenaline which all contribute to an officer's decision to shoot.
1.2.2. Pro: Stephon Clark fled from officers when they confronted him.
1.2.2.1. Con: Stephon Clark may not have known that the men who confronted him were police officers.
1.2.2.1.1. Pro: The officers did not identify themselves as police when they initially confronted Clark.
1.2.2.1.2. Con: There was a police helicopter circling overhead and following Clark as he moved from house to house.
1.2.2.1.3. Con: Patrol officers wear uniforms, Stephon should have been able to recognize them as officers.
1.2.2.1.3.1. Con: It was dark and the officers were shining a bright light at Clark, which might make it very hard to see what they are wearing.
1.2.2.1.3.1.1. Con: Intense flashlights and the shouted order "show me your hands" are just as obvious as a police uniform. Anyone who has had any high risk police contact would recognize officers under those circumstances.
1.2.2.2. Pro: Clark ignored police instructions to "Stop" and "Show me your hands" before running into the backyard where he was ultimately shot.
1.2.2.3. Con: Following procedure from the [Use of Force Continuum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Use_of_force_continuum), if a suspect is fleeing they are not an imminent threat to the life of the officers or members of the public, and lethal force is not justified.
1.2.2.3.1. Con: Lethal force is not legally justified based on flight alone, but other actions during a suspect's flight may justify lethal force.
1.2.2.4. Con: Stephon Clark, and other young black males, often feel especially threatened and reactive when police are confronting them due to a long history of violence toward black people by a white lead government. Thus, following the orders of police is not necessarily safe when you are a young black male.
1.3. Pro: Stephon Clark’s behavior prior to being contacted by police contributed to his shooting.
1.3.1. Pro: Stephon Clark had tried to break into his neighbor's house so officers were expecting trouble when confronting him.
1.3.1.1. Con: The video footage given by the Sacramento PD does not include video of him breaking his neighbors window.
1.3.1.2. Pro: Attempted burglary is the best explanation for why Clark was in his neighbor's yard to begin with.
1.3.1.3. Pro: The officers in the helicopter reported seeing him break the window.
1.3.1.4. Con: Even if he had been breaking into houses, this does not by itself justify a lethal response
1.3.2. Pro: Stephon Clark was breaking car windows in his neighborhood so police were expecting trouble when they confronted him.
1.3.2.1. Con: There is no video footage of him breaking car windows.
1.3.2.2. Con: Even if he had been breaking car windows, this does not by itself justify a lethal response
1.3.2.2.1. Con: Ultimately, it was Clark's behavior after contact with officers that was the important factor in the shooting. His behavior beforehand is ultimately irrelevant.
1.3.2.2.1.1. Con: His behavior during the confrontation is more important, but his behavior before the confrontation heightened the risk perceived by the officers and is part of the overall circumstance that must be considered in deciding whether the shooting is justified.
1.3.3. Con: -> See 1.3.2.2.1.
1.4. Con: Clark did not do anything unreasonable or life threatening when confronted by police.
1.4.1. Con: The helicopter video clearly shows Clark advancing toward the officers in the back yard, after being ordered to stop.
1.4.1.1. Con: Moving towards officers is not a necessarily threatening action.
1.4.1.1.1. Con: If they believed Clark armed, it was reasonable to be concerned.
1.4.1.2. Con: [Frame-by-frame](http://lolkje.cloudaccess.host/?p=66) of the helicopter video shows some upper-body movement toward the officers immediately before being shot, but there is insufficient video evidence to determine the motive for the movement.
1.4.1.2.1. Con: Motive or not, this could be considered reasonable suspicion.
1.4.2. Pro: The video actually shows that Mr. Clark never advanced toward the officers, and 8 of the 20 shots fired at him that actually hit his body all struck him in either the back or the side. This is what the newly-revealed autopsy report shows. [nytimes.com](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/30/us/stephon-clark-independent-autopsy.html?hpw&rref=us&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=well-region&region=bottom-well&WT.nav=bottom-well)
1.4.2.1. Con: The video is neither clear nor detailed enough to show whether Stephon was a threat to the officers or not.