Discussion Title: We have a moral duty to intervene in nature to limit animal suffering.

1. We have a moral duty to intervene in nature to limit suffering of sentient beings.
1.1. Con: Moral duties do not exist.
1.1.1. Con: Moral duties exist out of compassion.
1.1.2. Con: Moral duties are created out of self-interest
1.1.3. Con: Yes they do, but this topic deserves a thread of its own. I think the question really should be for people who think moral duties exist. I think the point of this thread is really just whether or not it extends to non human animals.
1.2. Pro: The principle of predation is unfair.
1.2.1. Con: Fairness is not and has never been a natural state. It is an entirely human construct, and forcing our ideas onto the rest of the planet is deeply unethical.
1.2.1.1. Con: "Forcing" our ideas onto the rest of the planet isn't more unethical than doing nothing while we are aware of the suffering of sentient beings and we could find solutions to fix that.
1.2.1.2. Con: Humanity is already forcing his view onto/against nature and/or other living creatures \(eg artificial selection, breeding, curing disease and more broadly all our activities have an impact on the planet\).
1.2.1.3. Pro: Mankind has a moral condition. Nature doesn't.
1.3. Con: Every time we, as humans, intervened we ended up making things worse..
1.4. Con: We do not understand nature enough to intervene. By meddling we risk making things much worse!
1.4.1. Pro: In Estonia rabid foxes started ending up in people's backyards and so a general vaccination program was launched. Rabies killed most of the fox population and by removing it, we only managed to disrupt a working ecosystem and even made the initial problem worse!
1.4.2. Pro: Preventing and putting out forest fires - deadwood needs to burn away periodically, or the entire forest will burn down.
1.5. Con: Animal suffering shouldn't be analysed from the point of view of human morality.
1.5.1. Con: All living beings suffer but most lower animals such as fish don’t have highly developed nervous system which perceived pain in both physical and emotional form so human morality does not apply
1.5.2. Pro: We can only have moral duties to moral agents. Non rational animals aren't moral agents. To be a moral agent, you need to be able to make moral choices. Making moral choices requires an intellect. An intellect is the power to grasp forms. Animals cannot grasp forms. So they have no intellect. So they cannot make moral choices. So they are not a moral agent. So we have no moral duties towards them.
1.5.2.1. Con: We can also have moral duties to moral patients. A human baby for example isn't a moral agent \(yet\), however we have moral duties toward them.
1.6. Con: We must leave the nature make it's own way.
1.6.1. Con: Certain interventions can be helpful and not impact negatively on ecosystems \(e.g. fixing a lion's wound in a safari\).
1.6.2. Con: We pretty much denied that with deforestation and our building frenzy
1.6.3. Pro: ALL wild animals suffer a horrible death. Therefore the only way to minimize wild animal suffering is to prevent wild animal life. The only pragmatic way to prevent animal life is to kill all wild animals. Ultimately, a universe without suffering MUST be a universe without life at all.
1.6.3.1. Con: Eliminating all wild animal life would not entail a universe without life. Captive and domesticated animals, if cared for to decent animal welfare standards, would not need to be eliminated.
1.7. Con: This may destabilize the ecosystem.
1.7.1. Con: Some types of interventions maybe would. But if we considered that and made a lot of research, we could maybe find ways to reduce animal suffering and still have ecosystems intact.
1.7.2. Pro: Animals that produce more than 2 offspring \(almost all of them\) would exponentially grow in population, destroy vegetation, etc. Any intervention to save their lives creates a population problem.
1.7.3. Pro: Predators will have Problems finding prey.
1.7.4. Pro: Through the close care humans provide to animals, wild animals will get used to humans.
1.7.5. Con: It may. Suppose it would. It doesn't seem like that would be a good enough reason. If you found a warring tribe in the amazon fighting over natural resources, resources you could easily provide, I think most people would take the risk of damaging the ecosystem in exchange for saving lives.
1.8. Pro: According to the utilitarian morality we must preserve the happiness of the greatest number.
1.8.1. Con: Lions eat gazelles: if you wanted to protect gazelles, you would make lions starving to death, meaning that the gazelles population would become bigger and bigger. This would end up in millions of gazelles dying of hunger; every single ecosystem is extremely complicated, and changing the smallest tile would destroy the whole mosaic, meaning that both lions and gazelles would suffer so no population's happiness would be preserved \(sorry for my bad English\).
1.8.2. Con: Sure, but Utilitarians don't put all sentient beings on the same plane. They will often say something like, "Better a dissatisfied Socrates than a satisfied pig." Because they're not on the same plane, a utilitarian would need to calculate how much happiness an animal \(if an animal could be happy\) is worth the sacrifice of human discomfort, which I doubt anyone could do.
1.9. Con: Nature is the survival of the fittest.
1.9.1. Con: We, as humans, have get rid of natural selection, we even have created domestics animals that don't depend of natural selection too. In a sense, it could be unfair to decide to get rid of natural selection and darwinian life for us and a few domestic species and leave the rest of the livings behind.
1.10. Pro: The Hedonistic Imperative outlines how genetic engineering and nanotechnology will abolish suffering in all sentient life.
[hedweb.com](https://www.hedweb.com/)
1.11. Con: Suffering is a fundamental nervous response to live properly.
1.11.1. Con: "Living properly" is not necessarily desirable if it entails great suffering.
1.12. Pro: As a moral agent, the human has a duty towards all sentient beings.
1.12.1. Con: This presupposes that there is some inexorable or obvious link between the concept of being a "moral agent" and the idea that we have a duty towards this specific, subjective moral value.
1.12.2. Con: Definition of "what is / what is not" moral may vary depending on culture, age, religion, ideology and several other human historical and psychological \(among others\) factors. Therefore, there's no logical way of naming a unique and single "Moral" which leads to some specific duty.
1.12.3. Con: Sentience is a necessary, but not alone a sufficient, condition for moral duties.