Discussion Title: We should not consume the the works of artists who have been accused or convicted of serious crimes

1. We should not consume the the works of artists who have been accused or convicted of serious crimes
1.1. Con: The [quality](https://www.kialo.com/we-should-not-consume-the-the-works-of-artists-who-have-been-accused-or-convicted-of-serious-crimes-14365/14365.0=14365.1/=14365.1) of art should not dependent on the artist's actions.
1.1.1. Con: Not consuming is not denying the quality, but rather the character of the artist that creating it.
1.1.2. Pro: By the same logic we should not consume or use, technology, life saving medicine, or anything else created by individuals or businesses who have been accused or convicted of serious crimes, etc.
1.1.3. Pro: Their art is distinct from their actions in society and them as a person, so what they do as themselves is irrelevant when enjoying art
1.1.3.1. Con: Art is fundamentally an extension of the artist and must be considered when consuming their art
1.1.4. Pro: If an author produces bad quality art but he's a really good human being, should we be forced to consume his works? No, of course. The opposite is also true.
1.1.4.1. Con: The analogy is not based on the same standards. People consume art that they consider good and enjoy. No one will consume art from someone who is morally good but a bad artist. However, not consuming art from a good artist but a bad person is not an aesthetic or cultural choice, is a moral one.
1.2. Con: This does away with due process, only convicted people should be punished by society.
1.2.1. Con: Due process is necessary in the criminal system to ensure all citizens are guaranteed and equal and fair trial. However, that is independent of social or personal ethics.
1.2.1.1. Pro: For example, one may decide to boycott an artist or a company because it does not align with one’s values, even if what they do or say is not illegal.
1.2.2. Con: Convicted people should be punished criminally, yet social ways of punishment \(like a boycott\) are the prerogative of individuals within the use of their freedom.
1.2.3. Pro: Punishing someone just because he's been accused of something is highly immoral and quite often worse than the crime itself.
1.2.3.1. Con: Depending on the crime \(rape, children abuse or murder, for example\) a preemptive social measure is not worse than the crime.
1.3. Con: There is the issue of who gets to decide what is and is not a "serious enough" crime for their art to be black listed.
1.3.1. Pro: For instance many musicians have admitted to taking illegal drugs yet continue to see a lot of popularity.
1.3.1.1. Con: Taking illegal drugs may harm oneself but not others.
1.4. Pro: It can be considered ethically wrong to support these artists in any way
1.4.1. Con: Consuming media from an artist does not support that artist unless you've paid for it directly. Secondary sales and piracy are two examples that come to mind
1.4.1.1. Con: Resorting to a crime \(piracy\) in order to ethically consume the art of someone without supporting that person monetarily, does not seem a morally acceptable option.
1.5. Pro: Artists may likely avoid abusive behaviors that can be deemed a crime, if they know there will be social repercussions.
1.5.1. Con: Or they will just take care in using pseudonyms.
1.5.2. Con: Many artists produce art regardless of the public.
1.5.3. Con: Punishment should fit the crime. Example: if somebody is guilty of financial crime, its their financial activities that should be constrained, not their artistic expression.
1.5.3.1. Con: Not consuming the works of art of someone does not constrain their artistic expression. They can still express themselves artistically, yet people may choose to not consume what they produce.
1.5.4. Con: There is no evidence that this is likely to occur. The most likely thing is that artists will produce anon under different names, much as authors who have historically have been subject to the same types of censorship socially and legally.
1.6. Con: We would lose an opportunity to understand criminals and their behavior, making us more vulnerable.
1.6.1. Con: Law enforcement are the ones that have to understand criminals to prevent crime and protect citizens from it.
1.6.2. Con: Consuming works of art made by criminals does not give the public any enlightenment on their crimes, just gives artists an endorsement.
1.6.3. Con: The public is equally vulnerable to criminals, consuming their art or not.
1.6.4. Con: Most artists are celebrities enough to be special psychological cases. They aren't necessarily indicative of general criminal minds.
1.7. Con: An artist can redeem him/herself.
1.7.1. Con: The process of redemption can happen away from the public and thus, at least during that time, his or her work should not be consumed.
1.8. Con: Authorship is not always clear or it is collective.
1.8.1. Pro: This presents a dilemma when boycotting an artist who doesn't work alone. Many people work to make movies, TV shows, albums, etc. So, if we boycott every production an accused actor was or ever will be in, we also boycott everyone on and off screen for each production, some of whom may not have a choice in casting.
1.9. Con: We lose potential sources of enjoyment and pleasure
1.9.1. Con: It can be a source of satisfaction to give someone just recompense for their crimes.
1.9.2. Con: Our enjoyment is not as important as staying true to moral principles
1.10. Pro: Can apply pressure to the media industry to not support or use people with a criminal history
1.10.1. Con: Many people gain a criminal history unfairly, and having various industries pass judgement against them makes it that much harder for them to regain normalcy in their lives
1.11. Con: There would probably be very little direct impact on said artists, so there is no point in not consuming their art
1.11.1. Con: If a large number of consumers do not consume an artist's art, it will definitely have an impact.
1.12. Pro: It would show support to the victims of the crimes and make their feelings on the matter feel validated