Discussion Title: Wearing makeup is anti-feminist

1. Wearing makeup is anti-feminist
1.1. Con: Makeup is about self-expression more than anything
1.1.1. Pro: Women should be free to wear make-up, but not feel obliged to do so.
1.2. Con: Feminism means personal choice to live however one wishes as a woman, without discrimination or oppression. As such, wearing makeup, or indeed not, is feminist on the understanding that it is a personal choice.
1.3. Con: Forcing women to not wearing make-up is not different from patriarchy telling them how they should dress and appear for social acceptance.
1.4. Con: People can wear makeup and still be a feminist.
1.4.1. Pro: Some people wear makeup to embrace feminism.
1.4.2. Pro: Most women wear makeup to feel better about themselves, not to pander to men's needs. To empower yourself as a woman and to empower other women is exactly what feminism is about.
1.5. Pro: Makeup involves sexism, placing people into gender roles \(as women are mostly expected to wear makeup and men not as much\)
1.5.1. Pro: People can legally require women to wear makeup for work \(like [jobs and promotions](https://smallbusiness.chron.com/can-employer-require-female-employees-wear-makeup-63185.html)\).
1.6. Pro: Makeup involves objectifying women, and wearing makeup supports that.
1.7. Con: Wearing makeup does not have to be politically motivated, as there are multiple reasons and contexts as to why people wear makeup, just as there are multiple reasons/contexts for any activity.
1.7.1. Pro: Some people wear stage makeup because they are actors/actresses. This does not have anything to do with feminism, but instead just playing their role in a production.
1.7.2. Pro: Feminism is about freedom of choice and equality. A woman should never be forced to use makeup but should be free to do so
1.8. Pro: Makeup becomes oppressive when people are socially and cultural pushed to wear it.
1.8.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.1.
1.9. Pro: When women cannot appreciate their natural beauty when they wear makeup \(does not happen in all instances of wearing makeup\), then it ventures into being anti-feminist