Discussion Title: What is the best way to fight overpopulation?

1. What is the best way to fight overpopulation?
1.1. Improve sexual education.
1.1.1. Pro: [Comprehensive sex education](http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/component/content/article/450-effective-sex-education) has shown to limit the number of unwanted teen pregnancies.
1.1.2. Con: Sex ed has been shown to make teenagers more sexually active.
1.1.2.1. Con: Being sexually active doesn't necessarily lead to more births.
1.1.3. Pro: Comprehensive education about sex and related issues such as STIs and birth control give people the tools to choose how they want to shape their lives.
1.2. Promoting adoption in replacement of birth.
1.2.1. Con: The process of adopting a child is not always feasible or possible due to strict adoption rules and cost.
1.2.1.1. Con: Adoption rules could be loosened, or changed to allow more people such as single parents, same-sex parents, etc, to adopt children.
1.2.1.2. Pro: Same-sex joint adoptions are only legal in [26 countries](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGBT_adoption#Legal_status) so far.
1.2.2. Pro: Having one biological child and adopting others gives the parent/s a chance to experience a variety of parenting experiences and gives children up for adoption a home and family.
1.2.3. Pro: This will reduce the birth rate for sure. and also homeless children will get home.
1.2.4. Con: Violates basic principles of individual liberty.
1.2.4.1. Con: Promoting adoption is not the same as imposing adoption. I.e. to suggest that someone should adopt does not preclude their capacity to choose otherwise, and does not violate any principles of individual liberty.
1.2.5. Con: You still have to have birth to have anything to adopt.
1.3. Promote one-child families.
1.3.1. Con: One-child families will provide a big gap between the amount of men and women in a country.
1.3.1.1. Con: There is no evidence that the natural human sex ratio is anything significantly different from 1:1.
1.3.1.2. Pro: Implementing a one-child policy leads to forced or back-door [abortions](https://www.pop.org/chinas-one-child-policy-itself-leads-to-forced-abortions/) due to gender preferences or trying to avoid a punishment for having more than one child.
1.3.2. Pro: We need to halve the population if we are to keep from destroying the earth.
1.3.3. Pro: One-child policy give a right to parent to have their own child as well as to help reducing overpopulation without any catastrophe.
1.3.4. Pro: Better care and focus can be given to single child upbringing.
1.3.5. Con: Promoting one-child families fails to consider those with limited access to contraceptives due to finances, lack of education, or religious restrictions etc.
1.3.6. Con: An only child might grow up with less opportunity to experience sibling love and compassion and will be less likely to be able to learn about sharing at a young age. This might lead to a more selfish and short-sighted population.
1.3.7. Con: Some societies are not enlightened enough to be unbiased in the gender of the child, and will have preferential to certain gender, which will upset the ratio in general.
1.3.8. Con: Decreases liberty
1.4. Propose an maximal age \(like 60\), so that everybody knows when life will end. That way people can plan their life better \(you know your curve of life\) and at the end of your life you actually know you're doing good for others \(making space\).
1.4.1. Con: This infringes the most basic human right to live.
1.5. Make birth control and education about birth control free.
1.6. Countries should provide free birth control.
1.6.1. Con: This will cost a lot of money which could be used in a more effective way.
1.6.2. Pro: This would make birth control accessible to everyone.
1.6.2.1. Con: Free healthcare didnt make healthcare accessible to everyone.
1.6.3. Pro: This would not only promote the health and safety of our women, especially the women in our workforce, but it would also limit unwanted children, partially fixing overpopulation and making it less likely for children to be hurt and/or killed because they were unwanted or unplanned.
1.6.3.1. Con: Birth control is not healthy.
1.6.3.1.1. Con: Not all types of birth control are unhealthy.
1.6.4. Con: This might lead to underpopulation.
1.6.4.1. Con: The use of contraceptives in developing countries is a [positive development](https://www.theguardian.com/global-development/2016/mar/08/rise-use-contraception-global-population-growth-family-planning) in the sense that it will help stop global overpopulation.
1.6.4.1.1. Con: This could lead to underpopulation.
1.6.4.2. Con: World population has gone from one billion in 1804 to three billion in the 1960s, seven billion today, and potentially ten billion by 2050.  Is underpopulation truly a concern to anyone anywhere?
1.6.5. Pro: Birth control at about $30 a month is much less expensive that a single birth at $10,000 or the cost of raising a child. Thus it costs less and ensures that those that have children actually want them.
1.6.6. Con: Birth control is already free in the form of abstinence and wire coat hangers.
1.6.7. Con: Theres no such thing as free birth control.
1.7. Drought, Starvation, and War.
1.7.1. Con: War doesn't always help.  WWII cost 3% of the population, and then we had the Baby Boom.
1.7.1.1. Pro: It only means the warmongers need to try harder.  Over 20 million Russians died in World War II and another ten million died because of Stalin; if the rest of the world tried as hard to kill people as Russia has, we wouldn't have a problem with overpopulation.
1.7.2. Con: War/Drought/Starvation is detrimental to each living being whether it is human being or other species.
Moreover, although this might reduce the population but in overall it is a negative solution to the problem because as a bye-product we will be facing more problems than the one trying to solve.
1.7.3. Pro: In a broad historical context, it has been argued that war has been used to keep populations in check.
1.8. Improve education about overpopulation.
1.8.1. Pro: Educating a population that directly perpetuates overpopulation about the cons of giving multiple births could cause many of those within that population to reconsider their birth choices.
1.8.2. Con: This has never worked before, as it's our biological imperitive. Reproduction is quite literally our only purpose as a species.
1.8.3. Con: This could cause the "Idiocracy effect" where only the smart educated people curtail their reproduction, while the dumb people continue to reproduce at a normal rate, eventually creating a world of dumb people incapable of running a society.
1.8.3.1. Con: Redefining "education" to include means of engaging the wider public on this topic via social media and other mediums would help to mitigate that risk.
1.8.3.2. Con: This effect will be even more visible without education about problems that the modern world faces.
1.8.4. Pro: Better education will result in more statements about overpopulation and more activists fighting overpopulation.
1.8.4.1. Con: Exactly. This would make more people sexually repugnant and make it harder for people to find attractive mates causing a decrease in sex and a decrease in population.
1.8.5. Con: Opinions are divided about this topic making it difficult to decide what to teach within these lessons.
1.8.5.1. Pro: Many developed countries struggle with low birth rates therefore there would be a conflict between global and local point of views.
1.9. Increase economic development in countries that are more dependent on manual labor and replace with technology, so there will be less of a need for more people \(agrarian societies\).
1.9.1. Pro: Improving their life quality and making sure they would not need a lot of children to make sure that somebody will support them even when they can't work anymore seems like the best short-term solution.
1.9.2. Con: Increased economic development, especially in countries seeking to industrialize and catch up with their more-developed neighbors, means increasing production, which means increasing pollution.
1.9.3. Pro: the way we define over population or rapid population growth is as a problem. but what if i say it is not a problem and only the natural behavior of humans to multiply themselves. every problem comes with the solution there must be for it too. blaming other possible factors are  not good.
1.9.4. Pro: Hans Rosling [- a swedish statistician working for the UN -](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OT9poH_D2Iw) showed a clear statistical trend between better quality of life, access to healthcare, reduction of poverty and the number of average children per family.
1.10. Overpopulation is not a problem and therefore there is [no solution needed](https://www.kialo.com/global-overpopulation-is-a-myth-9226/9226.0=9226.201/=9226.201).
1.10.1. Con: Current population growth is exponential. With no change it's only a matter of time before our resources are depleted.
1.11. More countries need to legalize abortion.
1.11.1. Pro: What better place to start reducing population than eliminating births that aren't even wanted in the first place.
1.11.2. Con: Legalizing abortion - while an important issue for women's health and reproductive rights - is not a tool for large-scale birth control.
1.11.3. Con: A lot of people and cultures disagree with abortion.
1.11.3.1. Con: A government should allow abortion. Every individual should be able to make this decision for themselves.
1.11.3.1.1. Con: There is also the right of the fetus that is considered an individual by some.
1.11.3.1.2. Con: A woman shouldn't be allowed to choose abortion without the permission of a man.
1.11.4. Con: Apart from moral objections abortion does not address the issue. When your boat is leaking you need to find a leak not just soak a water with a sponge.
1.12. Economic welfare.
1.13. Overpopulation can be alleviated by a change in lifestyle.
1.13.1. Pro: Rather than overpopulation, the main problems are overconsumption, unsustainable governing of resources and uneven distribution of population. Educating people in alternate ways of life could result in same population being relieved from many issues attributed to overpopulation.
1.13.2. Con: The problems you named are definitly the most urgent. But even when those problems are solved, you are just postponing the inevitable fact that one day, there are going to be too many of us walking around to sustain this planet.
1.13.2.1. Con: How do you know that is the case? Birthrates have been declining in correlation with women's and girls access to education.
1.13.3. Con: In nations that preach democracy and free enterprise, it is difficult to tell people to curb consumption, either by legislation or by public service announcement.
1.13.3.1. Con: It becomes a matter of education and difficult is not the same as impossible. Consumerism has been conditioned into people and we can overcome it.[We just need to have the right conversation.](http://socialrebirth.org/social-conversation-desperately-need/)
1.13.4. Pro: Behaviour of a population plays a significant role in determining population [limits](http://socialrebirth.org/understanding-population-limits/).
1.13.4.1. Pro: Capitalistic behaviour puts downward pressure on Earth's carrying capacity for our species. At the same time an economic change which resulted in a reduction in consumerism would elevate our planet carrying capacity as it relates to the human species.
1.13.5. Pro: Cultural and lifestyle changes will enable self regulation and awareness. This way we will never experience a real overpopulatrion problem in the future.
1.14. Decrease the infant mortality in developing countries [to decrease the birth rate](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BkSO9pOVpRM)
1.15. Speed up the development of realistic sex robots. Men will buy the robots, women will resent me for choosing technology over them \(once again\), and birth rates will fall.
1.15.1. Con: Traditional birth control is cheaper.
1.16. Space exploration. Colonize other planets. Spread through the cosmos.
1.16.1. Con: Cosmos for the most part is uninhabitable.
1.16.2. Con: Cosmic expansion is highly costly in terms of resources, time and energy.
1.16.3. Con: Mass relocation of humans isn’t feasible
1.16.4. Pro: You dont have to curtail people's reproductive rights.
1.16.5. Pro: The Sun will explode eventually, so it's the best way to ensure long term survival of the human race.
1.16.5.1. Con: The sun will burn out in approximately [5 billion years](https://www.space.com/22471-red-giant-stars.html), while the Earth might run out of some of its resources in the [current century](https://www.theguardian.com/uk/2002/jul/07/research.waste) if used at current rate.
1.16.6. Pro: Space is a cool place to live and a lot of people would be interested to join such an experiment.
1.16.6.1. Con: There are certain [problems](https://www.nasa.gov/hrp/bodyinspace) that humans face when in space.
1.17. Earth is not overpopulated. [Around 2 acres of land](https://www.smallfootprintfamily.com/how-much-land-is-needed-to-be-self-sufficient) are enough to support a family of 4 \(and even more if you are ultra-productive\), so 1.9 billion acres are enough with a 7.6 billion population today. Earth has [36.8 billion acres](http://science.answers.com/Q/How_many_acres_of_land_does_Earth_have) and plenty of food and water, so we are at 5% of Earth's land capacity.
1.17.1. Con: Current population growth is exponential. With no change it's only a matter of time before our resources are depleted.
1.17.2. Con: This claim falsely assumes all of earths land capacity can be used for housing and farming. Arable land is currently 10-11%. Even using your overly simplified calculation there are currently 0.194acres per person. [data.worldbank.org](https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/AG.LND.ARBL.HA.PC) . Worldwide overfishing is depleting fish stocks faster than they can replenish.
1.18. Empower women
1.18.1. Pro: Local feminist movements help empower women around the world, and are fighting for access to education, reproductive rights, and more agency.
1.18.1.1. Pro: African feminism is [influencing](http://africanarguments.org/2017/03/08/how-african-feminism-changed-the-world/) "northern" feminism as well. Assuming that the African continent is devoid of contemporary feminist thinkers and activists is wrong.
1.18.2. Con: Although empowering women is beneficial, it is not a systematic solution to the problem of overpopulation.