Discussion Title: What is the best course of action for a government in dealing with poaching?

1. What is the best course of action for a government in dealing with poaching?
1.1. Identify the animal by product. Take stock of its availability. If large stockpiles are available, create a licensing framework within which stockpiles can be sold to flood the market. This will reduce the cost of the item, as well as the incentive for illegal procurement. If this doesn't work, make it illegal again. By this time the government will know who many of the actors are and will be better empowered to prosecute them.
1.1.1. Con: Corruption in government might lead to a poor execution of this policy.
1.1.2. Con: Large stockpiles might not be available and what little is available will only serve to fuel corruption.
1.1.3. Con: There is no guarantee that illegitimate operations will legitimize.
1.2. Run bottom-up community-consultative co-created educational campaigns around conservation, the value to tourism, the value of the product, and economics: supply and demand.
1.2.1. Con: Sustainable tourism doesn't reach the local population. In [Rwandan gorilla parks](http://siteresources.worldbank.org/AFRICAEXT/Resources/258643-1271798012256/Tourism_Rwanda.pdf), for example, only 5% of revenues are shared with the local population even though it creates 85% out of Gorilla tourism.
1.3. Spend more money on prosecution than is spent on the product that poaching is done for.
1.4. Spend more money on protecting and breeding the threatened resource.
1.4.1. Pro: This might lead to a supply that will outstrip the demand.
1.4.2. Con: This might stimulate demand even further.
1.4.3. Con: The resource might not be able to grow enough to keep up with demand.
1.4.4. Con: The necessary budget might not be available.
1.5. Legislate harsher sentences for violators.
1.5.1. Con: This might only make the by product more sought after.
1.5.2. Con: This might only serve to solicit a bigger reward in line with the increased risk.
1.5.3. Pro: It might serve as a deterrent.