Discussion Title: What makes life worth living, from an individual perspective?

1. Life is worth living for most individuals.
1.1. Pro: Experiencing beauty makes life worth living.
1.1.1. Con: It may make it worth suffering through pain, but does it make it worth the suffering we cause toward other humans and other creatures?
1.1.2. Con: Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. It is not part of objective reality, and hence doesn't have real value.
1.2. Con: Life is not worth living, but we choose to remain alive because making the choice to die is harder than living.
1.2.1. Pro: Humans are affected by [status quo bias](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Status_quo_bias).
1.2.2. Con: Death could be sudden or painless. The reason we choose to keep living is because we believe happiness could still be possible for us - and worth fighting for, even as a distant possibility.
1.3. Pro: The rare moments of bliss make life worth living.
1.3.1. Con: -> See 1.1.1.
1.3.2. Pro: Seeing your children grow gives tender to many people.
1.4. Con: Human life is not worth living because we are a virus toward our planet and other creatures.
1.4.1. Con: Does the existence of our planet or any other creature have any relevance if a creature with a mind to grasp the meaningfulness of their existence does not exist?
1.4.1.1. Con: It is not certain that other creatures do not possess a mind capable of grasping the meaningfulness of their own existence; or that a higher being does not exist that has this capability.
1.4.2. Con: Nature has killed more species than humans ever will during previous "great extinction" events, and the earth will eventually be engulfed by the sun before all meaningful activity in our universe ceases due to heat death; so humans are not really a great risk to other creatures.
1.4.2.1. Pro: Humans are actually the only creatures currently living who might be capable of preventing death and destruction from being the fate of our earth, its species, and meaningful activity in our universe.
1.5. Pro: The ability to attain some sort of understanding of our existence makes life worth living.
1.5.1. Con: -> See 1.1.1.
1.5.2. Con: There would need to some additional reason for those who do not possess the capability of understanding existence \(as perhaps could be the case with special needs individuals\) to continue living.
1.5.3. Con: Creatures who not as self-aware as humans still have \(an instinctive\) will to live and survive.
1.6. Pro: Knowing/experiencing God or the Divine makes life worth living.
1.6.1. Con: -> See 1.1.1.
1.6.2. Con: There is no proof that God or the Divine exists.
1.6.2.1. Con: We may not be able to say with certainty that the God of religion exists, but it is certain that at least as a thought the concept of perfection exists, and it may be that it is worth living in order to experience and strive for that concept.
1.6.2.2. Con: -> See discussion #2629: [God](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classical_theism) exists.
1.6.3. Con: Life is worth living for the sake of experiencing reality. Not everyone has faith and yet each life is still worth living.
1.7. Con: Continuing to live causes us to experience pain, and it is best to avoid pain.
1.7.1. Pro: The older we get the more likely we are to experience physical pain due to illness and age.
1.7.2. Con: Many argue that exposure to pain allows them to mature and view life through a renewed perspective.
1.7.3. Con: The avoidence of pain should not be an end in itself. It should only be a means of pursuing one's own life and happiness. Pain should be endured, only when it may be necessary to achieve those goals.
1.8. Con: By continuing to live we cause suffering to other humans and other creatures, so even if the good things in life outweigh the bad for us as individuals, they might not outweigh the effects to the well-being of other humans and species that must weigh on our conscience.
1.8.1. Con: Many human beings bring joy and happiness to the lives of those around them.
1.8.2. Con: Most humans are not individually responsible for any suffering caused by external conditions.
1.8.3. Con: We can try to counterbalance this by also making as many other humans' and other creatures' lives better and happier.
1.9. Pro: Expression makes life worth living.
1.9.1. Con: -> See 1.4.
1.9.2. Con: Societal norms do not allow one to fully express themselves or for that expression to be appreciated by others.
1.10. Pro: Life is like a captivating movie: curiosity makes us want to watch it until the end.
1.10.1. Pro: At a larger scale, the story of the humankind is captivating, so we decide to be both witnesses and actors of it.
1.10.2. Pro: Never stop learning. Discovery is amazing. Finding elegant solutions creates a thirst for more.
1.11. Pro: Living life to the fullest helps humanity and nature continue in evolution. Removing the emotional bias, the "meaning of life" is to continue the evolution of the Homo Sapiens species.
1.12. Pro: Death is nothingness and therefore meaningless. Life allows us to experience pleasure, nature and love - these experiences give life meaning and therefore it is superior.
1.13. Pro: The ability to love others and have others love us makes life worth living.
1.13.1. Con: -> See 1.1.1.
1.13.2. Pro: The ability to experience love is a key part of the human experience. It is proven that a lack of human connection is a key part of our livelihood.
1.14. Pro: Because the pursuit of happiness is still worth enduring the pains of life. And this adversity is what gives us character and makes us stronger.
1.14.1. Con: Whether the trade off is worth it is a strictly subjective judgement. Some people may consider the pain not worth it.
1.15. Pro: We have a duty to remain alive as long as our bodies allow us to.
1.15.1. Con: Such a duty would have to come from somewhere. There is no proof that anything exists that can make something our duty.
1.15.2. Pro: If we take our life prematurely we may be denied an afterlife or experience a worse afterlife than we would if we had live out our current, earthly life.
1.15.3. Con: It's not necessarily our "duty" to do anything. Nobody told humans that we absolutely have to live out our lives. We were born to do what we want to do. Our lives are in our hands; nobody else can decide that for us.
1.15.3.1. Con: It is the view of many religious individuals that God revealed through Scripture a set of duties that we ought to follow, and that not committing murder, including self-murder \(i.e. suicide\) is one such duty. Various philosophers have also argued that it violates the social contract and categorical imperative which all humans have a duty to abide by.
1.15.3.2. Con: -> See discussion #5685: There is no free will.
1.16. Pro: If it is believed that nothing is created or destroyed, only modified, then we are on Earth to continue to self-evolve. All experiences help us to expand our virtual book of options. Mistakes and bad decisions are what helps us grow and discover the most.
1.17. Pro: It's best to do what nature dictates for creatures like us, and that is living and reproducing.
1.17.1. Con: Trying to figure out what nature dictates for us is an impossible task. If we include our thoughts as part of our nature, it would make anything we choose to do within our nature \(and make this argument irrelevant\). If some parts of us are not part of our nature it is not at all clear what parts are not.
1.17.2. Con: We should not rely on nature to help us determine what we should do as humans, since nature is inherently destructive and uncaring; and would eventually destroy humankind if not for exercising our will against it. \(And even then, it still might.\)
1.17.3. Pro: We are a product of evolution, which is predicated on survival at least until reproductive age.
1.18. Pro: We have an internal sense that it feels right to be alive, and we should follow that internal sense.
1.18.1. Con: We have an internal sense of a lot of things. That does not make those things right. If a pedophile had an internal sense that they ought to have sex with a young child, for example, that does not make it acceptable.
1.18.1.1. Con: Choosing to live is different than the case of a pedophile because we are not directly harming anyone by choosing to remain alive.
1.18.1.1.1. Con: We take away limited resources from other humans, it is indirectly harmful.