Discussion Title: Which Is The Coolest Sci-Fi Weapon?

1. The coolest sci-fi weapon is...?
1.1. Rail-guns: A canon that launches a projectile at extremely high velocity using electromagnetic forces. The projectile is launched across a pair of conductive rails. Example: Ship-mounted rail-guns on vessels in 'The Expanse'.
1.1.1. Con: A rail-gun becomes ineffective at extremely long and extremely close distances.
1.1.2. Pro: A rail-gun is capable of completely penetrating any medium-sized vessel, causing serious internal damage.
1.1.3. Con: They need a tremendous amount of energy and are difficult to maintain.
1.1.4. Pro: Can be used against ground, aerial and spatial targets.
1.2. The Noisy Cricket: A small yet powerful gun capable of blowing a hole through a wall with a single shot. \(MiB\)
1.2.1. Pro: Its small size allows to hide it easily.
1.2.2. Pro: It's probably easy to mass produce a weapon that is smaller.
1.2.3. Con: It is small and looks 'unmanly'.
1.2.3.1. Pro: Will Smith looked very skeptical when he received the Noisy Cricket.
1.2.3.2. Pro: The bigger is usually the better.
1.3. Photon Torpedo: Long range weapon capable of carrying different kinds of powerful warheads. \(Star Trek\)
1.3.1. Con: A photon torpedo doesn't eliminate an enemy immediately.
1.3.2. Con: A torpedo is relatively easy to intercept and destroy.
1.3.3. Pro: Torpedos are near-impossible to evade as their speed-to-mass ratio is much more favourable than that of any vessel.
1.4. The Crucible & the Catalyst: a device capable of either wiping out all artificial intelligence in the galaxy, controlling advanced AI, or fusing genetic and synthetic DNA. \(Mass Effect\)
1.4.1. Pro: That weapon would be the most efficient option in case AI become more intelligent than humans and they decide to wage war against us.
1.4.2. Con: The "weapon" that has been built for months using valuable resources, and draining galactic workforce, just to give one man almost absolute power? This sounds like too much risk to even use it.
1.4.3. Con: Many fans of the trilogy didn't like this ending.
1.5. Sentient AI and its ancillaries \(Imperial Radch Series\)
1.5.1. Pro: Space ships are controlled by a sentient AI, which extends to its [ancillaries](http://imperial-radch.wikia.com/wiki/Ancillary), ie. many bodies and a ship sharing a consciousness.
1.5.1.1. Pro: Breq, the main character of the series, is the last body that survives the destruction of a ship, thereby becoming the vessel for its consciousness.
1.5.1.1.1. Pro: Breq thereby contains the only copy of all experiences and knowledge by all ancillaries and the ship, which makes her very powerful and potentially dangerous.
1.5.1.2. Con: The AI is programmed to obey the Emperor of the Radch, which means that they don't actually have free will.
1.6. Wizard wands are the coolest weapons. They also double as the most polyvalent tools.
1.6.1. Con: Wizard wands are fantasy, not sci-fi.
1.6.2. Pro: Wizard wands have such a broad variety of uses that they cannot be discounted.
1.6.3. Con: Not anybody can use them: you have have magic in your blood.
1.7. Iron Man suit, using the latest technology to get rid of villains while flying.
1.7.1. Pro: It is instinctive to use \(as proven by how others than Tony Stark adapt to using the suits\) and effective for both flying and combat.
1.8. The Death Star, from Star Wars. A moon-sized weapon capable of destroying an entire planet.
1.8.1. Con: Its main gun can only be used as a tool for genocide.
1.8.1.1. Con: The Death Star has various power settings and can be used in single reactor, or multiple reactor mode. This allows it to eliminate targets as small as camps and as large as planets.
1.8.2. Con: It has been blown up by an X-wing.
1.9. The Towel: If you wanna survive, you've gotta know where your towel is.

Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy
1.9.1. Pro: The author of this claim really knows where his towel is.
1.9.2. Pro: Travel to enough less than savory destinations and it might harbor pathogens capable of wiping out entire worlds.
1.10. The Holy Bolter. .75 caliber armor piercing bullet with a rocket propellant giving it additional velocity and range that explodes upon breaching the target for the Glory of the Emperor! It's not the most powerful or flashiest weapon but it successfully defended Mankind against xenos, mutants and heretics for at least ten thousand years.
1.11. Cloaking Device. The ability to fire through a cloak, deploy troops to ambush unsuspecting enemies, remain greatly undetected as long as the opposition is not actively searching for you using technology to disrupt your cloaking field and maintaining a military advantage of being able to strike at will. Coincides with one of the best methods of attack by Sun Tzu.
1.12. Time Shields \(Dr Who\): The entire universe is in constant motion, any weapon \(light-based, energy-based, projectile, etc.\) would completely miss its target upon passing through the time distortion that is the time-shield. During the Time War, the Time Lords used Time Shields to protect an entire planet from a Dalek siege.
1.13. The Infinity Gauntlet. It's small, fits on your hand, and allows you to control every aspect of the universe.
1.14. Light Sabre: A plasma blade emitted from a metal frame and powered by a kyber crystal which is nearly exclusively used by force-sensitives. Due to the extreme power output of the blade, the weapon may cut through or penetrate nearly every material, with only a few exceptions like 'cortosis'. \(Star Wars\)
1.14.1. Con: A light-sabre is a melee weapon which can be only be used defensively at a longer range.
1.14.2. Pro: It can be used defensively to deflect incoming energy-based attacks like plasma bolts.
1.14.3. Pro: The light saber has become iconic.
1.14.4. Pro: It makes cool sounds.
1.14.4.1. Pro: When you 'draw' the light saber it gives a sense that action is starting.
1.14.4.2. Pro: When two light sabers touch one can feel the energy by the sound of it.
1.14.5. Con: It cauterizes the wound as it cuts, which makes it less effective than a traditional sword.
1.14.6. Con: Light Sabres are impractical in terms of the danger the pose to their user.
1.14.6.1. Pro: Especially when your lightsaber is dual or has crossguards.
1.14.7. Con: Light Sabres are impractical in terms of their defensive power against explosives.