Discussion Title: Who is the best Doctor?

1. Who is the best Doctor?
1.1. David Tennant, the 10th Doctor.
1.1.1. Pro: He masterfully portrayed the depth of character/emotion that the Doctor should have.
1.1.2. Pro: David Tennant is an amazing actor.
1.1.2.1. Con: Many of the other actors who have taken up the role are equally talented and acclaimed.
1.1.2.2. Pro: David Tennant played the role amazingly and really made the viewer feel as they were in the story and connected well with viewers
1.1.2.3. Pro: Tennant was a huge Doctor Who fan as a kid, which shows as he becomes the character rather than just portraying him.
1.1.2.3.1. Con: Strictly speaking, David Tennant is not the Doctor. He did just portray him.
1.1.3. Pro: Physiccccccccssssssssss!!!!!!  Also in Blink when he is explaining how time is not just A to B but a ball of time. He is a teacher for us especially when we do stupid stuff as a civilization and we kind of need someone in real-life to guide us so we could see what's out there.
1.1.4. Pro: He was energetic, funny and relatable.  He made me feel real and strong emotions which persist to this day when I remember the series.  Alonsi.
1.1.5. Pro: The Tenth Doctor remember how many children there was on Gallifrey. His emotions were raw and he let everyone see what he was feeling. He was eccentric and lovable, but he had this seriousness and hidden rage that masked an overgrowing sadness that made him seem all that more human.
1.1.6. Pro: The [tenth Doctor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tenth_Doctor) has the best companions.
1.1.6.1. Pro: He fell in love with [Rose Tyler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rose_Tyler).
1.1.6.1.1. Pro: Rose Tyler was the only companion to face the struggles and horrors of time/space travel and still remain gentle and compassionate.
1.1.6.1.2. Pro: Rose Tyler is a more developed character than most companions.
1.1.6.2. Pro: Martha Jones becomes an expert with vast influence.
1.1.6.2.1. Con: Martha was hardened by her travels with the Doctor, as commented on by Donna and the Master.
1.1.6.2.2. Pro: She makes recurrent appearances on Doctor Who as well as Torchwood.
1.1.6.2.3. Pro: In season 2 of Doctor Who she saves the world when The Master has incapacitated The Doctor.
1.2. Christopher Eccleston, the ninth Doctor.
1.2.1. Pro: Is maybe the most unpredictable and fun Doctor in the series since 2005.
1.2.1.1. Pro: Flirts with Captain Jack Harkness and makes jokes about backwards human sexual morals in the 20th century.
1.2.2. Con: Only portrayed the Doctor for one season.
1.2.2.1. Con: The amount of time an actor spends portraying The Doctor does not necessarily correlate with quality.
1.2.3. Pro: He paved the way for a new generation of Doctors- quirky, brilliant, sassy, and lonely.
1.3. Matt Smith, the 11th Doctor.
1.3.1. Pro: Matt Smith's Doctor was eccentric and whimsical, while also strong and on occasion angry. He could offer all sides of what the Doctor should be.
1.3.2. Pro: The 11th Doctor had brilliant [catchphrases.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xwSvYkssHG4)
1.3.3. Pro: Matt Smith's portrayal of a good natured humorous time lord opened the show to a new generation of viewers just from an entertainment perspective alone.
1.3.3.1. Pro: Loyal fans are always the most important but increasing the viewership was important to the overall show.
1.3.4. Pro: Matt Smith's connection with Clara most likely increased the female fan base.
1.4. Patrick Troughton, the second Doctor.
1.4.1. Pro: He is the one all the others copy.
1.5. Peter Capaldi, the Twelfth Doctor
1.5.1. Pro: Capaldi's performance captured many of the characteristics that previous actors have tried to imbue the Doctor with: petulant, grumpy, melancholy, but also striving to be good, kind and just. Capaldi showed no weaknesses as he gave us all of these over his three years in the role.
1.5.2. Pro: Capaldi came to the role with a combination of a lengthy, diverse and acclaimed career and a genuine and longstanding passion for the series and the character of the Doctor.
1.5.3. Pro: Capaldi's strongest scenes - his anti-war speech in The Zygon Inversion, his regeneration monologue, the ambiguity over the half-face man's fall in Deep Breath, his final/first meeting with River Song, and above all the whole of Heaven Sent - were critically acclaimed and will certainly remain among Doctor Who's most iconic moments.
1.5.4. Pro: His outfit was cool.
1.6. John Pertwee, the third Doctor