Discussion Title: Who Should Self-Driving Cars Kill?

1. When facing an unavoidable accident, self-driving cars should save the lives of their passengers regardless of the harm caused to others.
1.1. Con: It is immoral for self-driving cars to deliberately favour one human life over another. If there are situations where they must, the only moral option is to choose arbitrarily/randomly.
1.1.1. Pro: Weighing human lives against each other goes against legal frameworks, for example the German constitution, as the German Constitutional Court [prominently clarified](https://www.unodc.org/tldb/pdf/EssayCivilAviation1.pdf).
1.1.1.1. Con: The German Constitution and its courts may not be particularly representative of most legal systems.
1.1.1.1.1. Pro: For historical reasons, the German state may be particularly wary about instrumentalising human lives in the service of utilitarian goals.
1.1.1.2. Con: The case cited in that ruling is not analogous to that of a car crash.
1.1.1.2.1. Pro: In the instance of a plane hijacking the question is whether the military should or should not act. With self-driving cars there is no action/inaction decision — the decision of where to navigate is constant and required.
1.1.1.2.2. Pro: In the instance of a plane hijacking there is a high degree of risk and uncertainty in knowing what the hijackers plans are. In contrast the physical movement of cars is much more predictable and causation easier to establish.
1.1.1.2.2.1. Con: The court does not appear to have considered the role of unpredictability, and makes a blanket statement that the government may not weigh lives in this form.
1.1.1.2.3. Pro: In the instance of a plane hijacking the passengers are the victims of a deliberate malicious act; to sacrifice them is immoral because they bear no blame. In accidents with self-driving cars there is typically no highly malicious actor \(such as a hijacker\) that has deliberately victimised people.
1.1.1.3. Con: Governments weigh human lives against each other all the time; clearly these legal frameworks don't actually prevent ethical decisions being made about whose lives to prioritise when tradeoffs must be made \(as in the car crash scenario\).
1.1.1.3.1. Pro: For example, governments run military systems in a manner that does not value the lives of individual soldiers to an unlimited degree, or even value all soldiers equally. Most soldiers are not given that maximum amount of protection possible \(ie full body armour\) and certain soldiers \(ie generals\) are kept from danger.
1.1.1.3.2. Pro: For example, governments run healthcare systems in a manner that is not prepared to throw unlimited money at procedures with a slim chance of success. Instead they gauge costs against benefits such as quality adjusted life years.
1.1.1.4. Con: The case in question turns on a belief that human dignity - enshrined in Article 1.1 of the German Basic Law as something [the state must protect](https://www.btg-bestellservice.de/pdf/80201000.pdf) - prohibits public authorities from using "human beings as objects of their action". It makes no assessment of whether private civilian actors, like car manufacturers, would be bound by the same principle, given that they are not directed by the Basic Law in the same way.
1.1.2. Pro: This removes blame from the system. Survivors of accidents will no longer be able to blame the car makers/programmers or the car's passengers because the decision was decided by fate.
1.1.3. Pro: We already accept that death is an arbitrary outcome that occurs often without just cause or warning, such as in freak accidents or cancer.
1.1.4. Pro: There is no universally-held moral system that can be relied upon to settle ethical disputes between people. Because there are no 'right' or even 'good enough' actions it is best to randomly decide.
1.1.4.1. Con: To move from claiming that there is no universally accepted moral system to advocating random decisions is to make a large leap. Even if without universally accepted rules, there can be relatively strong and weak systems.
1.1.5. Con: Given that it is arbitrary who is in the car and who is not, choosing to consistently save the lives of the passengers over others is as arbitrary as any other choice.
1.1.5.1. Con: Consistently choosing to always save passengers over third parties is almost by definition not an arbitrary choice. For many reasons broad groups of people are more likely to be third parties in this scenario — for example the poor may be more likely to be cyclists or pedestrians.
1.1.6. Con: Choosing to allocate harm randomly is nihilistic; it gives up on the possibility of harm being allocated to some greater purpose such as satisfying justice or increasing overall safety.
1.1.7. Con: When a self-driving car tries to save its passengers \(or third parties\) it does so by reacting to its external environment and trying to plot an optimal outcome. Forcing cars to 'roll the dice' when allocating harm will lead to backlash.
1.1.7.1. Pro: It is easier to understand and forgive a machine that tries and fails to minimise harm rather than one that gives up and deliberately allocates it.
1.1.7.2. Pro: The idea of death being allocated randomly is deeply unsettling as it highlights the lack of agency we can have over our own lives. Even if harm is allocated due to complex physics and software they at least follow causative rules.
1.1.7.3. Con: The random allocation is referring to a scenario where a utilitarian calculation has already been made and both options are equal: it is a simple choice of one life or another. In this case, rather than be programmed to choose always the passenger, or always the third party, the vehicle should use a random algorithm to decide.
1.1.8. Pro: A [public survey](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/aug/22/self-driving-cars-moral-dilemmas) that tested the public's instincts about how self-driving cars should weigh lives found that "the only consistent finding is that people are inconsistent – even when it comes to their own views". This suggests that random outcomes are actually best in line with the preferences of the public at large.
1.1.9. Pro: Saving the lives of passengers supports classism by determining that the lives of people who have the money to buy a self-driving cars are inherently more valuable than those who do not.
1.1.9.1. Con: The conclusion that passengers are more wealthy than others is unjustified. Passengers could be Uber clients while possible victims could be rich people passing by. "Passenger of self-driving car" is not synonymous with "rich person".
1.1.10. Pro: Self-driving cars should not be allowed to make any moral decision — avoiding an accident should be their key directive. If a car rounds the corner and is about to hit a school bus, the car should only recognise an obstacle which will lead to a collision — not the number of persons on the bus.
1.2. Pro: In collisions between multiple vehicles it is likely that each self-driving car could not both identify and follow the truly optimal outcome that reduces overall harm for everyone. In the face of this uncertainty, each car is probably better off acting only in the interest of its own passengers.
1.2.1. Pro: It is difficult to assess the large number of variables that exist in a crash. The car would therefore be unable to predict the outcomes of its attempt to save the bystanders, [potentially leading](http://fortune.com/2016/10/15/mercedes-self-driving-car-ethics/) to more aggregate harm.
1.2.1.1. Con: There will always be specific instances where public safety would be better served by sacrificing the passengers instead.
1.2.1.1.1. Con: These instances will exist. For instance, throwing the driver off the cliff instead of crashing into a crowd. However, maybe the best choice is to hit the crowd, at a specific angle, that leads to injuries and no deaths. There is a difference between the best scenario existing, and the cars actually knowing with 100% confidence that it is the best scenario.
1.2.1.1.2. Pro: Passengers are likely to suffer less harm due to the structure of the vehicle, airbags, seat belts etc. Thus the emphasis should be on avoiding collisions with unprotected pedestrians/cyclists rather than protection of it's passengers.
1.2.1.2. Pro: In attempting to avoid running into a child near a school, a self-driving car could instead swerve or stop. This could potentially lead to another vehicle \(for instance a school bus\) crashing, which could hypothetically [lead](http://www.businessinsider.com.au/mercedes-benz-self-driving-cars-programmed-save-driver-2016-10?r=UK&IR=T) to the death of many more. It is this sort of unpredictability which makes it difficult for self-driving cars to make decisions.
1.2.1.2.1. Con: This sort of unpredictability affects human decisions also. In this respect, autonomous driving vehicle's decision making processes are no different than ours.
1.2.1.3. Pro: To program a car to avoid a collision and save bystanders introduces too many variables, and quite possibly introduces a logical loop where the car would seek to avoid any hazard at the expense of its passengers.
1.2.2. Con: Behaving 'selfishly' will sometimes be ineffective and drivers will be harmed anyway,
1.2.2.1. Pro: This becomes particularly problematic when you consider the notion of all cars simultaneously trying to save their own passengers. It is unlikely that these would all be successful; taking into account collateral damage would likely lead to an increase in total injury.
1.2.3. Con: Unless only self-driving cars are allowed on the road then non-optimal outcomes will occur regardless because collisions can involve human pedestrians, cyclists, and human-driven cars.
1.2.3.1. Pro: The enhancement of general security on the roads requires the absolute predictability of every actors' behavior. This is exclusively the case with self-driving cars and not with irrational and differently acting human drivers among them.
1.2.3.1.1. Con: Recent developments in the field of artificial intelligence [point in the direction of](https://theconversation.com/googles-go-victory-shows-ai-thinking-can-be-unpredictable-and-thats-a-concern-56209) individual machines acting in an unpredictable fashion through processes such as reinforcement learning.
1.2.3.1.2. Con: Even without the benefit of connected autonomous cars, the superior sensors and reaction time of an autonomous car still makes them much safer than non-autonomous cars.
1.2.3.1.3. Con: Absolute predictability is not needed to improve road safety, just a greater level of predictability than before. Self-driving cars can still react to sudden events much more quickly than people.
1.2.3.1.4. Pro: The regular rules of the road are always suspended for presidential, vice presidential motorcades and for foreign heads of state. This is one such example where self-driving cars will not be able to predict how the motorcade drivers will react.
1.2.3.2. Pro: The systems of self-driving cars are able to communicate among each other almost instantly and constantly in order to prevent accidents. A non self-driving vehicle among them would increase the number of variables drastically, which increases the vulnerability to failure.
1.2.3.2.1. Con: Even if a vehicle is technically not self-driving, it is imaginable for it to take control from the driver in order to avoid an accident - which could be done as the result of networked communication. [Collision Avoidance Systems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collision_avoidance_system) already utilize this approach and take over in emergency situations.
1.2.3.3. Con: In non-pure systems utilitarianism is a byproduct of self-interest. Significant dependence on initial conditions is propagated by human error in a non-pure \(driverless\) system. Chaos can be reduced by self-preservation, as opposed to magnified by altruism in a non-pure system.
1.2.4. Con: Self-driving technology can help those in cars stay safe, but if cars always favoured the safety of their passengers this might come at the cost of increasing accident rates for third parties, such as pedestrians and cyclists.
1.2.4.1. Con: It is likely that even if self-driving cars were programmed to save their passengers lives, the fact that overall they would get in less accidents would still on balance save more cyclist and pedestrian lives.
1.2.4.1.1. Pro: A recent [study](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2016/10/161026105501.htm) predicts that on the whole, pedestrians will fare much better in a world that used self-driving cars than they presently do.
1.2.4.1.1.1. Con: That study does not consider the scenario under question here: where a collision/accident is unavoidable. It also probably does not assume that self-driving cars would act so selfishly.
1.2.4.1.1.1.1. Con: While the software's decision making procedures would affect the number of accidents some, a far greater reduction in pedestrian fatalities would come from currently technically avoidable accidents.
1.2.4.1.2. Con: This is not comparative. While it is true that compared to a world without self-driving cars the cyclists and pedestrians would be better off, they would still have higher death rates than compared to a world where self-driving cars did not favour their passengers exclusively.
1.2.4.2. Pro: Pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists already account for [half of all](http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs358/en/) road traffic deaths globally. They are already particularly vulnerable.
1.2.4.2.1. Con: This applies mostly to developing countries - and thus the places that will last adopt self-driving cars. In rich nations, such as for example the United States, traffic participants who are not inside a vehicle account for [only a third](https://crashstats.nhtsa.dot.gov/Api/Public/ViewPublication/812318) \(p. 5\) of all road traffic deaths.
1.2.4.3. Con: Pedestrians and cyclists usually do not pose a threat to car passengers, hence self-driving cars could meet them with care and lenience.
1.2.4.3.1. Con: Yet self-driving cars might conclude that the best way to protect their passengers is to accept casualties among pedestrians and cyclists, for example by driving onto a sidewalk in order to avoid a collision with another car.
1.2.5. Con: -> See 1.2.1.1.
1.2.6. Con: A car that would be able to save passengers, but would make exemptions for cases where many more bystanders would be killed, would cause an even lower number of total fatalities.
1.2.6.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.1.
1.2.6.2. Con: As mentioned in the parent: given accidents often have highly uncertain outcomes, a car might not be able to reliably identify these exemptions. In which case, it might erroneously sacrifice its passengers.
1.2.6.3. Pro: Considering only death/injury and not property damage, self-driving cars should be set to avoid accidents based upon the estimated total mass \(ETM\) of the object\(s\) to be hit. If the object's ETM is greater than the self-driving car, it should prioritize it's own passenger\(s\). If the object's ETM is less than the self-driving car, it should prioritize the object\(s\). Theoretically this would result in the least total deaths across various accidents.
1.2.7. Pro: If self-driving cars are too altruistic, that behaviour can be taken advantage of by other cars or third parties. For example, "[a Google vehicle found itself unable to set off because of its overcautious approach around \[a\] bicycle](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/602786/humans-will-bully-mild-mannered-autonomous-cars/?utm_campaign=socialflow&utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=post)."
1.2.7.1. Con: This example could just as easily be taken as an argument against deploying autonomous technology at all, as it is an argument for making self-driving cars selfish.
1.2.7.2. Con: In cases in which a deep learning machine, like those at Google, gets confused by an ambiguous stimuli, it takes minimal human input to correct the mistake. There's no reason why a passenger couldn't provide some input in tough situations.
1.2.7.3. Con: This is an issue with vehicles being too bound to road rules, not with their behaviour in serious accidents.
1.2.7.3.1. Pro: It can be fixed by either increasing the number of self-driving cars on the road to the point where all vehicles are self-driving, and thus cooperatively follow the road rules, or by programming self-driving cars to bend the rules when safe to do so.
1.2.8. Pro: The [unpredictability](http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/06/06/automobiles/autonomous-cars-problems.html) of other human drivers means self-driving cars may struggle to predict their actions. As a result they may need to use more simple heuristics \(ie acting 'selfishly'\) rather than attempting to 'solve' the scenario.
1.2.8.1. Pro: This can enable engineers to focus their effort on more reliable safety features, such as the physical structure of the car itself, rather than spending resources considering how it behaves in response to external stimuli.
1.2.8.1.1. Con: Engineers' skillsets are not fungible. The people programming the computer code for self-driving cars are not the same people designing crumple zones, and, indeed, are not qualified to do so.
1.2.8.2. Con: [Vehicular communication systems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vehicular_communication_systems) provide a strong alternative to help reduce the processing load without having to ignore or devalue passenger safety.
1.2.9. Con: In the vast majority of cases, slamming on the brakes has the best chance of [minimising the total amount of harm caused](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/aug/22/self-driving-cars-moral-dilemmas), as it is the most controllable action. Programming self-driving cars to prioritise their passengers would often stop them taking this course of action, which would actually increase the overall harm caused.
1.2.9.1. Con: It is unclear that this preference would significantly depart from merely putting on the brakes most of the time, and thus is of little consequence.
1.2.10. Pro: Cars are not capable of determining what exactly is in front of them: it might be a jaywalker, or it might be a runaway fruit cart. A few frames of data will not be enough to ever properly distinguish objects while travelling at that high of speeds. On the other hand, self-driving cars do always know that at least one human is in the vehicle.
1.2.10.1. Con: Most computer vision systems can tell if something is a human from a single frame of video with a high speed camera. All of the big names in self-driving are striving to have better and better software and better and better hardware that will only increase this accuracy.
1.2.10.2. Pro: The car would never be able to completely accurately identify potential bystanders. This leads on to the scenario where the car wrongly identifies a group of tree trunks as pedestrians and kills its occupant.
1.2.11. Pro: An AI system can be sure about its own existence but its perception and predictions about the scene outside the vehicle can be in error. It should therefore focus on the safety of its passengers.
1.2.11.1. Pro: Trying to give self-driving cars the ability to evaluate the harm caused in every possible scenario of an accident just opens the door for the self-driving car to commit mistakes and create unnecessary accidents by incorrectly judging safe situations as harmful.
1.2.12. Con: Multiple self driving cars should be able to communicate with each other, nullifying this problem.
1.2.13. Con: Self-driving cars shouldn't be given the choice to determine the value of lives either within or outside of their scope of saving, because it sets a precedent of an autonomous system determining the value of one life as compared to another. That can lead to countless complications later down the line, as each system is continuously learning. Instead once this problem is reached once, a parent system should then be developed that has a birds eye view of each interactive autonomous ecosystem.
1.2.13.1. Con: A parent system with a birds eye view doesn't necessary have a better understanding of the moral choices involved; even if it has a better understanding of the overall ecosystem. Value judgements still need to be made with regards to how self-driving cars behave in morally ambiguous scenarios.
1.3. Con: It is immoral for a self-driving car to not try to save the greatest number of lives and/or prevent the greatest amount of harm.
1.3.1. Con: It will be difficult for cars to accurately calculate how to prevent the greatest amount of harm.
1.3.1.1. Pro: Self-driving cars' safety features are designed to avoid accidents. While avoiding accidents is intuitively correlated with preventing harm, the sort of fine-grained analysis required to analyze harm to the human body and how it impacts the value of life require totally different calculations.
1.3.1.1.1. Con: Self-driving cars can accurately detect shapes that indicate a human. Thus they can easily calculate the most fundamental question of how many people will be impacted in a collision.
1.3.1.1.1.1. Pro: [Utilitarian theory](http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/utilitarianism-history/) recognizes that in split second decisions we will inevitably use "rules of thumb." Assuming that all lives are of equal value is a widely accepted rule of thumb.
1.3.1.1.1.2. Con: Not all humans involved in an accident are visible to cars in the form of shapes. Passengers of other cars or buses, for example, might be invisible yet suffer from an accident.
1.3.1.1.1.2.1. Con: Self-driving cars are very good at detecting other cars or buses. Once a self-driving car knows the approximate size of a vehicle it could probably then estimate the number of passengers relatively easily.
1.3.1.1.1.3. Con: If the car is attempting to be utilitarian in deciding how to act in a crash then it would in fact be necessary to attempt to assess the relative value of an individual's life in order to in fact be moral.
1.3.1.1.1.3.1. Con: -> See 1.3.1.1.1.1.
1.3.1.1.1.3.2. Pro: As the statistically probable lifespan of an individual says little about the quality of life, a utilitarian calculus should rely on a more nuanced indicator, such as [quality-adjusted life years](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quality-adjusted_life_year). Yet it is hard to imagine how a car could predict this.
1.3.1.1.1.4. Con: The ability of self-driving cars to correctly interpret shapes has been called [into question](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/530276/hidden-obstacles-for-googles-self-driving-cars/). As of today, they "can’t tell if a road obstacle is a rock or a crumpled piece of paper".
1.3.1.1.1.4.1. Con: Humans are much larger than rocks and paper. Thus they are much easier to identify.
1.3.1.1.1.4.2. Con: Technical limitations from 2014 are likely to no longer hold given the rapid evolution of the technology. Google's cars in particular [have now logged 2 million hours drivings](http://fortune.com/2016/10/05/google-self-driving-cars-milestone/) without major faults.
1.3.1.2. Con: -> See 1.3.1.1.1.
1.3.1.3. Pro: Different people may value physical harm more or less highly than others. For example, a professional sports person has much more to lose from a broken leg than a programmer.
1.3.1.3.1. Pro: Self-driving cars could infer how much people value their own personal livelihood by comparing insurance policies or by allowing people to set futures contracts.
1.3.1.3.1.1. Con: While this might be a solution for the occupant of the car, it is presumably not possible for a car to assess this for a 'random bystander' hence no ability to compare between them would exist.
1.3.1.3.1.2. Con: Self-driving cars should be dedicating all their computing and sensory resources to avoiding accidents. It is unreasonable and inefficient to also have to perform calculations to determine an individual's "worth."
1.3.1.3.1.2.1. Con: Computing power is cheap enough that it would be trivial to add more of it if the computing power of self-driving cars is too limited to do this.
1.3.1.3.1.2.2. Con: At the point the car's actions must harm someone, it seems best to try and determine the least-bad outcome; even if that requires using methods to calculate the value of an individual's life.
1.3.1.3.1.2.3. Pro: Deep Learning algorithms, like those used in some self-driving cars, learn to classify stimuli with countless trials of exposure and classification. This process takes a considerable amount of time and effort. In most driving scenarios involving a crash of some kind,  there is often a distinct lack of time.
1.3.1.3.1.2.3.1. Con: Insights driven by machine learning can be done ahead of time by using pre-existing or simulated data sets. The insights they provide can thus be gleaned ahead of time, rather than needing to be calculated during a crash.
1.3.1.3.1.2.3.2. Con: Specialised hardware can perform machine learning tasks extremely quickly, such as a machine learning-enhanced image signal processor performing "[as many as 100 billion operations in just 25 milliseconds](http://www.theverge.com/2016/9/8/12839838/apple-iphone-7-plus-ai-machine-learning-bokeh-photography)".
1.3.1.4. Con: Even if it's difficult for cars to accurately calculate, having only partially-effective calculations is still an improvement over not attempting to calculate harm at all.
1.3.1.5. Con: Self-driving cars can accurately gauge the height of objects. This provides a good proxy for age and would allow for a self-driving car to value the young over the old.
1.3.1.5.1. Con: Prioritizing lives according to categories such as age is problematic from the widely accepted stance that all humans have the same right to life.
1.3.1.5.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.1.
1.3.1.5.1.2. Con: -> See 1.3.1.1.1.3.
1.3.1.5.1.3. Con: Humans may in general have the same right to life; but we hold it to be more tragic when the young die and less tragic when the old die.
1.3.1.6. Pro: There are citizens with a higher value that benefit society as a whole more than others. In order to prevent the most harm, we should be prioritising their lives over others.
1.3.1.6.1. Con: -> See 1.3.1.3.1.2.
1.3.2. Pro: As in other matters of public health policy, benefits should be calculated through utilitarian considerations that attempt to maximise individual lifespans.
1.3.2.1. Con: -> See 1.3.1.1.1.3.2.
1.3.2.2. Pro: The vehicle should be programmed to protect humanity in a more general sense. The algorithm should favor a numbers game: kill the one \(passenger\) to save the five \(others\). Since direct human agency has been removed \(and assuming the vehicle's algorithmic choice is known to all\) it should favor the least damage.
1.3.3. Pro: -> See 1.2.1.1.
1.3.4. Pro: According to [Article 7](http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/) of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, all people are equal before the law. All citizens' lives are valued equally, thus the right thing to do is to save as many lives as possible.
1.3.4.1. Con: Human lives are all equal in that they have absolute and inviolable value. Two lives are therefore not worth more than one.
1.3.4.2. Con: That's a misinterpretation. Equality before the law assumes equal treatment in a court of law, not equal value of life.
1.3.5. Con: [Utilitarianism](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/utilitarianism) is not the only way in which a self-driving car algorithm should morally look at the situation. Other factors have to be considered as well. It could arguably also be immoral for a self-driving car to only judge on saving the most lives without considering anything other factors.
1.3.5.1. Pro: In some instances, utilitarianism betrays other values or factors that also play a huge role when deciding value of life. Justice is an example. To many, a murderer's life would be worth less than a law-abiding citizen. However, if there were 5 murderers and 2 law-abiding citizens in danger, utilitarianism would mean choosing to save the lives of the murderers over the innocents.
1.3.5.2. Pro: For example, if the passenger was the Prime Minister or President, that should alter the moral consideration beyond just directly comparing that amount of lives saved.
1.3.5.2.1. Con: Many hold all human life equal regardless of the role that each person plays in society.
1.3.5.2.1.1. Con: The president of a country could very well be the center point of that country, making his loss detrimental to more than himself and his/her loved ones
1.3.5.2.2. Con: This level of detail is not plausible for the microsecond decision making process an autonomous vehicle will be taking in the foreseeable future.
1.3.5.2.2.1. Con: Computer programs can react to stimuli in under a billionth of a second, with the constant advancement in technology it is highly likely that by the time that self driving cars become available so will their processing power have improved.
1.3.5.3. Pro: Not all life holds the same value/potential value; such as the difference between the young and old. Laws should not be written based on presumptions, and self driven cars should not be subject to assumptions that a particular life in question holds the greatest value.
1.3.5.4. Con: A machine is a utility and utilitarianism is the only acceptable moral position for it to take. Anything else would be highly dangerous and open to misuse.
1.3.5.4.1. Con: Misuse would be prevented as self driving cars would be heavily inspected.
1.3.6. Pro: Designing an AI-controlled machine to deliberately inflict more than the minimum necessary amount of harm essentially renders that machine an autonomous weapon. Outside of military applications it seems obvious that such a device is highly undesirable to the general public.
1.3.7. Con: This consideration doesn't speak to the ethical considerations when the amount of harm produced by either option is equivalent.
1.3.7.1. Pro: In certain instances the number of people harmed may be equal either way, in this case the car would still be left with the decision of whom to harm and therefore is not an effective argument when debating passenger priority.
1.3.7.1.1. Con: A rule which is applied only when the harm is equal is not "regardless of the harm to others", as the root claim states.
1.3.8. Con: A self-driving car that was designed to not prioritise the owner/occupier would never thrive in an open market, thus denying the technological benefits to society as a whole.
1.3.8.1. Pro: The adoption of self-driving cars will be limited if people are afraid that their car may deliberately choose to harm them.
1.3.8.1.1. Pro: The adoption of cars \('horseless carriages'\) was long-stymied by safety fears which then lead to onerous laws such as [the Locomotive Act](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Locomotive_Acts#The_Locomotive_Act_1865_\(Red_Flag_Act\)).
1.3.8.1.2. Con: If the adoption of self-driving cars depends on this kind of measure then it is questionable whether they should be adopted in the first place.
1.3.8.1.2.1. Con: In the status quo it is plausible that most drivers instinctually try to save themselves during accidents. Even if all self-driving cars adopt this behaviour it is no worse.
1.3.8.1.2.2. Con: Aversion to risk denies the benefits of such risk. Thinking like this would have human society never evolve beyond horses and candlelight.
1.3.8.1.3. Pro: This is reflected in the [evidence available](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/352/6293/1573) - study participants prefer that self-driving cars not be utilitarian actors, and would be less likely to buy one if they were.
1.3.8.1.4. Con: The mass adoption of self-driving cars will be limited if people are afraid that other people's self-driving cars will deliberately choose to harm them. Particularly if self-driving cars will be less privately owned and more of a rental service.
1.3.8.1.5. Con: This does not resolve the ethical question satisfactorily because this approach treats human life as a factor in an equation, to be compared and added up. That is ethically questionable.
1.3.8.1.5.1. Pro: -> See 1.1.1.
1.3.8.1.6. Con: People should be slightly afraid of every person and computer who is driving a car on the street, however deaths due to self-driving cars only happen in extreme situations. Because the probability of a killing is less likely with self-driving cars than with human drivers, people will be less afraid of self-driving cars than of human drivers.
1.3.8.1.7. Con: The need to add this functionality is only relevant if the risk to passengers is perceived as material to them. For example, there is some level of risk with pretty much all medicine and yet patients, on the basis of medical advice, choose to take those generally small risks because the benefits are perceived to substantially outway the risks. Driverless cars are predicted to massively reduce the risk of road travel, so favoring passengers may not be required.
1.3.8.1.8. Pro: If passengers feel safe in their own cars, the number of people choosing self-driving cars will increase leading to the majority of vehicles operating with a self-driving system, resulting in everyone's safety.
1.3.8.1.9. Pro: It is better for self-driving cars to be adopted as soon as possible because the technology saves so many lives. Any lives lost due to unavoidable accidents are less important than this wider goal.
1.3.8.1.9.1. Pro: [About 90%](http://cyberlaw.stanford.edu/blog/2013/12/human-error-cause-vehicle-crashes) of all motor vehicle crashes are, at least partly, caused by human error. Thus the introduction of self-driving cars is likely to drastically reduce the number of traffic accidents.
1.3.8.1.9.1.1. Pro: Traffic accidents cost many [lives](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_traffic-related_death_rate) and [resources](http://www.rmiia.org/auto/traffic_safety/Cost_of_crashes.asp) and therefore have to be reduced.
1.3.8.1.9.1.1.1. Pro: [The total costs](http://www.alertdriving.com/home/fleet-alert-magazine/international/human-error-accounts-90-road-accidents) of yearly traffic accidents is estimated around 3$ trillion \(USD\).
1.3.8.1.9.1.1.2. Pro: The number of [traffic fatalities](http://www.alertdriving.com/home/fleet-alert-magazine/international/human-error-accounts-90-road-accidents) is predicted to rise by 67 percent over the period of 2000-2020.
1.3.8.1.9.1.1.2.1. Con: These numbers are the result of developments in middle and low income countries. Self-driving cars will probably not be adapted there anytime soon and thus not be able to change this situation. In rich countries, road traffic fatalities are on a downward-trend, for example [in the European Union](http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Road_safety_statistics_at_regional_level).
1.3.8.1.9.1.1.3. Pro: [On a global scale](http://www.alertdriving.com/home/fleet-alert-magazine/international/human-error-accounts-90-road-accidents) nearly three people pass away on the roads every minute and more than 50 million people are seriously injured every year.
1.3.8.1.9.1.2. Pro: Self-driving cars could provide easy solutions for behavior like drunk driving by preventing people from steering the car. In the United States, [a third](http://www.cdc.gov/motorvehiclesafety/impaired_driving/impaired-drv_factsheet.html) of all traffic-related deaths are the result of crashed caused by alcohol-impaired drivers.
1.3.8.1.9.1.3. Con: Human error can be the cause of failures in the programming and construction of self-driving cars. Thus the invention relocates the source from the streets to the place of production.
1.3.8.1.9.1.3.1. Con: Programming or manufacturing errors are much more easily caught and fixed than human inattention or drunk driving.
1.3.8.1.9.2. Pro: Self-driving cars only have to have better judgement than humans 51% of the time in order to be an improvement.
1.3.8.1.9.3. Pro: Self-driving cars can continuously incorporate precise data from a range of sensors and cameras into their decision making. Their situational awareness far exceeds that of a human driver.
1.3.8.1.9.4. Pro: Any digital system can potentially react to a situation with speed that far exceeds that of human cognition.
1.3.8.1.9.5. Con: As self-driving cars have neither been adapted nor even tested on a large scale, any claims about their impact on road traffic safety is speculative.
1.3.8.1.9.5.1. Pro: The [NHTSA](http://www.theverge.com/2016/9/19/12981448/self-driving-car-guidelines-obama-foxx-dot-nhtsa) \(National Highway Traffic Safety Administration\) remains sceptical of the technology behind self-driving cars and whether it is yet safe for public use.
1.3.8.1.9.5.2. Con: Self driving cars have logged more than [130 million miles](http://safer-america.com/safe-self-driving-cars/) by various companies and through various conditions.
1.3.8.1.10. Pro: Self-driving cars that favour their owner's safety will have a comparative advantage in the market place.
1.3.8.1.10.1. Con: Governments are likely to legislate the ethical behaviour of self-driving cars as they do currently with seat-belt laws. In this case, any competitive advantage disappears.
1.3.8.1.10.1.1. Con: Self-driving behaviours are likely to be highly nuanced and extremely complicated pieces of software engineering. It seems unlikely that legislation could create sensible rules to cover all possible accident scenarios.
1.3.8.1.10.2. Pro: There's no moral difference between killing passengers vs pedestrians \(assuming their numbers are the same\), so the decision should come down to something other than morality. Saving the person inside the car is a better business strategy that will sell more cars.
1.3.8.2. Con: A car designed to too strongly kill others to protect the owner would not thrive either, as many people's morals would not accept that.
1.3.8.2.1. Con: The car is prioritising the passenger, in the case of the driver having a family this type of car is preferred over a car that does not prioritise the passenger.
1.3.9. Pro: The most minimal economic impact on society would be achieved, on average, if maximisation of life was prioritised.
1.3.10. Con: The self-driving car has a duty to protect it's owner.
1.3.10.1. Pro: When people purchase a product they are purchasing the ability to use that product for their own ends and desires. To the extent that a product has the ability to decide between outcomes it should always decide in a manner that matches the desires of its owner.
1.3.10.1.1. Con: The saving of passengers' lives at all costs is not necessarily what these passengers would want given time to consider the alternatives.
1.3.10.1.1.1. Con: It is unrealistic for a self-driving car to always fulfill its user's desires unless those can be made into a rule that it can follow consistently.
1.3.10.1.1.1.1. Con: Even if the fulfillment of all of passengers' desires is unrealistic, self-driving cars should be able to act in accordance with passengers' interests in the most crucial of situations: those about life and death.
1.3.10.1.1.1.2. Con: The users do not necessarily need to specify an exact rule; it could just be a matter of adjusting the parameters of the rules that drive a car's existing decision making.
1.3.10.1.1.1.2.1. Pro: The decision should be left up to the car's user. The car company has a responsibility to protect its users if they want to be protected. But they might themselves prefer to protect a larger number of people, if possible. So they should be able to change a setting for maximum protection, or maximum value of life.
1.3.10.1.1.2. Con: In a high speed crash it is unlikely that the passengers, were they driving, would be able to make and execute a split second decision that would create the best course of action.
1.3.10.1.1.2.1. Con: Even if the passengers wouldn't always be in a position to have the ability to make a decision that optimized their preferences, it is still possible to talk about what their preferences are and, if the technology exists to act on these preferences, to strive to do so.
1.3.10.1.1.3. Pro: Most people would not value their own life above everything else; particularly the lives of others. For example, most people would be uneasy about driving into a crowd of school kids in order to save their own life.
1.3.10.1.1.3.1. Con: Most crashes are between small numbers of vehicles — there are very few scenarios where the choice is between saving one life at the cost of many others.
1.3.10.1.1.3.2. Con: Self-preservation is more instinctive than utilitarianism, so instinctively people do value themselves higher than others.
1.3.10.1.1.3.2.1. Pro: The fight or flight response overrides all others. Push comes to shove, self-preservation trumps everything.
1.3.10.1.1.3.3. Con: A driverless car is highly unlikely to encounter such a dilemma that requires driving into a crowd of school kids. This implies that something was broken: either the car or law.
1.3.10.1.1.4. Pro: Most people would not value their own life above everything else; particularly if it meant diminishing their own quality of life. For example, some people would not want to survive a crash with permanent disabilities.
1.3.10.1.1.5. Con: Equally, the third parties at risk would not necessary want for the self-driving car to kill its passenger\(s\) over themselves.
1.3.10.1.1.6. Pro: Even a purely selfish person would not want other people's self-driving cars to prioritize their own passengers' lives, and given sufficient time and reason would realize that it is better for them personally if cars in general follow the "minimize overall injury" guideline, and that it is unrealistic to expect a special car that operates differently to be made just for them.
1.3.10.1.2. Con: Owners who drive cars that will harm others over themselves are opening themselves up to liability for the harm they cause.
1.3.10.1.2.1. Con: While that may be the case, the owners of cars should be allowed this choice, as they are when using all other products.
1.3.10.1.2.1.1. Con: No other product has the capacity to make life and death decisions. It is unclear where else a purchaser of a product would have the choice to buy a product that may choose to kill someone.
1.3.10.1.2.2. Con: Even if this is true, financial liability is probably preferable for most people, when the alternative is extreme physical injury or death.
1.3.10.1.2.3. Pro: The law already recognizes [strict liability](http://injury.findlaw.com/car-accidents/fault-and-liability-for-motor-vehicle-accidents.html) when a design choice or design error is known to potentially cause harm.
1.3.10.1.2.3.1. Con: This does not affect the liability of the passengers that is in question; they did not design the car or the self-driving systems.
1.3.10.1.2.3.1.1. Con: Some liability must remain with the user. Someone who, for example, fires a less-than-lethal projectile cannot escape all blame in the event it kills the target. The decision to fire/drive the defective product was still taken by the user.
1.3.10.1.2.3.1.2. Con: This is easily avoided by the manufacturer by including in the usage terms and condition a clause along the lines of "design not perfect, use at own risk", etc.
1.3.10.1.2.4. Con: It is much more likely that the advent of self-driving cars will [move liability](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/allan-smith/how-selfdriving-cars-will_b_10890256.html) from the passengers to car manufacturers.
1.3.10.1.2.4.1. Pro: Volvo has already announced that it will accept [full liability](https://www.media.volvocars.com/global/en-gb/media/pressreleases/167975/us-urged-to-establish-nationwide-federal-guidelines-for-autonomous-driving) whenever one of its cars is in autonomous mode, making it one of the first car manufacturers in the world to make such a promise.
1.3.10.1.3. Pro: Given that the product has an ability to make choices \(regardless of whether they are programmed\), that product also has moral duties attached to it.
1.3.10.1.3.1. Pro: This ability to make choices creates a responsibility and an [agent-related obligation](http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/ethics-deontological/) between the car and its passengers. This duty requires that the car prioritise the safety of its passengers over unrelated individuals.
1.3.10.1.3.1.1. Pro: This is the same principle we extend towards parents; we consider it to be morally permissible for them to act in the best interests of their own children even at the cost of others, for example in sending them to a private school.
1.3.10.1.3.2. Pro: Products have an explicit purpose for which they were created. If that purpose is immoral \(say a landmine\) we can condemn that product for being a physical manifestation of that immorality.
1.3.10.1.3.3. Con: Only sentient beings can exert real choice; the programming/artificial intelligence of a self-driving car is deterministic and so incapable of having free will.
1.3.10.1.3.3.1. Con: By integrating information from multiple sensors in order to make decisions about how to maneuver through the world, the cognition of a self-driving car isn't that different from that of a human. If we can talk about the morality of our decisions, we can also talk about the morality of an autonomous car's decisions.
1.3.10.1.3.3.1.1. Pro: It is entirely possible that human beings also don't have free will. But we can still talk about the morality of their decision-making.
1.3.10.1.3.3.1.2. Con: Simply being able to navigate through the world does not afford you status as a moral actor. We do not give moral agency and responsibility to insects for example.
1.3.10.1.3.3.2. Con: Recent developments in the fields of artificial intelligence and machine learning point towards machines with [non-deterministic behavior](http://blogs.gartner.com/anton-chuvakin/2015/03/03/killed-by-ai-much-a-rise-of-non-deterministic-security/). Feeding them the same data twice does not necessarily produce the same result twice.
1.3.10.1.3.3.2.1. Con: Non-deterministic behaviour is only desirable in very particular situations, such as information security \(as discussed in the citation\) where you want to avoid having easily identifiable patterns of behaviour. In general, though, non-deterministic behaviour is highly undesirable, particularly for critical systems such as self-driving cars in crash situations.
1.3.10.1.3.3.3. Con: The validity of this claim depends on the kind of AI used in the car. In traditional \([GOFAI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbolic_artificial_intelligence)\) AI, the programmer would decide the parameters of all future decisions and therefore shoulder the moral responsibility. In the case of a learning AI that can act within a wide set of parameters and [decide](https://www.google.com/selfdrivingcar/how/) in each case how to behave "itself," then and only then would the responsibility fall upon the AI rather than the programming.
1.3.10.1.3.3.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.10.1.3.3.2.
1.3.10.1.3.3.3.2. Con: Having an advanced learning algorithm and wide range of tuned parameters does not mean that the AI's programmers are freed of their responsibility.
1.3.10.1.3.3.4. Pro: Even to the extent AI's are capable of learned or random behaviours, human programmers still create and structure the conditions through which these develop.
1.3.10.1.3.3.4.1. Pro: Computers are [incapable](https://engineering.mit.edu/ask/can-computer-generate-truly-random-number) of true randomness. Any decision a computer makes is based on its programming, which in turn depends on humans with[implicit bias](http://kirwaninstitute.osu.edu/research/understanding-implicit-bias/).
1.3.10.1.3.3.5. Pro: Even if products — such as self-driving cars — have the capacity for autonomous choice, these ultimately reflect the choices of the people who either designed or operated the product.
1.3.10.1.4. Pro: Given that the manufacturers likely owe a special duty to the owners of self-driving cars above and beyond that to general road users, they will likely lose more in lawsuits where the car's passengers are injured. Thus they are incentivised to have cars favour passengers.
1.3.10.1.4.1. Pro: The designers of self-driving cars have a legal responsibility to minimize harm to the primary users \(i.e. passengers\) of their product.
1.3.10.1.4.1.1. Con: This is not the standard that is recognised in society. For instance, we allow tobacco companies to continually produce cigarettes which are known to be harmful to their users. This is acceptable because the users consent to the harm they are incurring.
1.3.10.1.4.1.1.1. Con: The harms of cigarettes cannot be designed out of the product; they are an unavoidable part of it. If cigarettes were deliberately made more harmful \(or their designers neglected an obvious safety improvement\) we absolutely would hold the company liable.
1.3.10.1.4.1.1.2. Con: Cigarettes are a special case because of the entrenched nature of sin taxes, lobbying groups, and the amount of people who smoke; if a new drug was introduced today with similar harms it would definitely be banned.
1.3.10.1.4.1.1.3. Pro: By a similar logic, it would be acceptable for a car manufacturer to choose to not prioritise the lives of its users, provided they were aware of this decision before purchasing the car.
1.3.10.1.4.1.1.3.1. Con: While the user may take the unusual step and accept such terms, there still remains the thorny issue of whether the same terms should apply to children or other passengers who enter the vehicle unaware of the terms set.
1.3.10.1.4.1.2. Con: The manufacturer cannot control the environment in which a car operates. Thus, even an error-free self-driving car will sometimes find itself in situations when accidents are inevitable. In these instances, the accident is not the manufacturer's legal responsibility
1.3.10.1.4.1.2.1. Con: This is an argument for manufacturers not being legally liable to pay compensation when their self-driving cars are unable to protect passengers, but is not an argument for them not having a duty to design their cars to try to do so.
1.3.10.1.4.1.2.2. Con: Even where an accident itself is inevitable, manufacturers have a duty to ensure that their vehicles minimise the harm to the user of the product as much as is possible in the circumstances.
1.3.10.1.4.1.3. Pro: Designers who ignore this responsibility could build a bad reputation for their brand.
1.3.10.1.4.1.3.1. Pro: Fear of loss of income will encourage manufacturers of self driving cars to invest in technology to improve safety measures inside their vehicles. This will help to allay the fears of potential buyers and improve overall safety for all.
1.3.10.1.4.1.3.1.1. Pro: This is already done for every car in the market.
1.3.10.1.4.1.4. Pro: Users of self-driving cars surrender their decision-making whilst driving, meaning they are powerless to save their own lives in an accident scenario. This creates a duty of care to the passenger for the manufacturer.
1.3.10.1.4.1.4.1. Pro: This is analogous to the duty of care that doctors owe patients, or teachers owe students. In all situations, the fact that one party surrenders control to the other creates a special duty to protect them.
1.3.10.1.4.1.4.1.1. Pro: For example, it would be grossly unethical for a surgeon to secretly harvest their patient's organs, even if it would save many lives.
1.3.10.1.4.1.4.1.1.1. Con: The situation is not analogous  because in accident there is no 'default' behaviour to refrain from that respects everyone's bodily autonomy. Here there must be a choice made as to where harm occurs.
1.3.10.1.4.1.4.1.2. Con: It is unclear whether a self-driving car does actually owe a direct duty of care to its passengers. At the point at which the cars are an ubiquitous service, there's no reason why they shouldn't also have an equal duty of care to all other road users — a public bus or rail service does not have special duties to one user or another.
1.3.10.1.4.1.4.2. Con: Pedestrians and other road users similarly put faith and trust in those driving vehicles - or, in this case, in the vehicles themselves - and lack an ability to control them to save their own lives. If such a position of trust and reliance creates a duty of care, it is also owed to other road users.
1.3.10.1.4.1.5. Con: A legal duty to one person does not act to the exclusion of all other considerations.
1.3.10.1.4.1.5.1. Pro: It may minimise harm to me for my car to have large protruding steel spikes to keep other vehicles away, it would still also be illegal, because of the potential risk to others.
1.3.10.1.4.1.6. Con: Self-driving cars that would do anything other than follow the rules of the road in such a situation create unacceptable legal risks for their operators and manufacturers.
1.3.10.1.4.1.7. Pro: If a car killed or injured its operator the company will be liable for damages even if the car avoided injury to others outside the car. On the other hand, the company will be liable only if the car is at-fault in any accident that occurs. Therefore protecting the driver is the highest priority.
1.3.10.1.4.1.8. Con: The designers of products also have a legal responsibility to minimize the harm done to pedestrians and other drivers as well.
1.3.10.1.4.1.8.1. Con: -> See 1.3.8.1.
1.3.10.1.4.1.9. Con: When many, if not most, cars are self-driving it is not clear why passengers in one particular car are afforded special status as 'users' to be protected at all costs but passengers in other self-driving cars are not afforded the same status. As with road regulations or public transport infrastructure, it doesn't make sense for these broad-ranging systems to favour singular persons when they affect nearly everyone.
1.3.10.1.4.1.9.1. Con: If everyone's self-driving car acts in the same manner then everyone is effectively given a privileged status and thus equality.
1.3.10.1.4.1.10. Pro: There are many cases where the manufacturers of a car were held legally responsible for harm caused to drivers.
1.3.10.1.4.1.10.1. Pro: Ford paid hundreds of million dollars settling civil suits about [the Pinto's fuel tank defects](http://www.cheatsheet.com/automobiles/11-of-historys-most-infamous-automotive-scandals.html/?a=viewall).
1.3.10.1.4.1.10.2. Pro: GM is facing a [$10 billion suit](http://blog.caranddriver.com/gm-ignition-switch-deaths-up-to-29-automaker-may-face-10-billion-class-action-lawsuit/) over the Cobalt's faulty ignition switch.
1.3.10.1.4.2. Con: This results in incentives for car manufacturers to protect the passengers of their self-driving cars. Yet incentives do not tell us anything about what is morally right.
1.3.10.1.5. Pro: The [nature of property](http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/blackstone_bk2ch1.asp) as a right is to have "sole and despotic dominion which one man claims and exercises over the external things of the world, in total exclusion of the right of any other individual in the universe".
1.3.10.1.5.1. Con: Property ownership does not preclude integrated usage restrictions. Many cars and motorbikes, for example, come with a[speed limiter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speed_limiter) and digital media players as well as gaming consoles come with [region codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DVD_region_code),
1.3.10.1.6. Pro: Companies will prioritize the owner's needs and safety over the safety of others at least to some extent. If a car must choose to kill someone it would rather kill a stranger than a client that might pay for repairs, new model of the car etc.
1.3.10.1.7. Con: It is common practice to limit the use of products and services where it might collide with other considerations that are judged equally or more important.
1.3.10.1.7.1. Pro: Cars need to have seat-belts and passengers are obliged to wear these seat-belts.
1.3.10.1.7.2. Pro: Cars have to abide by certain emission standards to be sold.
1.3.10.1.7.3. Pro: -> See 1.3.10.1.5.1.
1.3.10.1.7.4. Pro: [Smoking bans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_smoking_bans_in_the_United_States) prohibit the use of cigarettes in many areas in order to protect non-smokers' health.
1.3.10.1.8. Pro: To the passenger, a driverless car is unlike the train. External human error shouldn't hold the passenger culpable; they simply allocated a destination. The driverless car, like a train, should limit the calamity \(breaking\) whilst prioritising the safety of the passenger.
1.3.10.1.9. Pro: As in the case of second-hand smoke the possibility exists of harming third parties when the product is used as intended.
1.3.10.1.9.1. Pro: This is a principle we accept when we allow car owners and manufacturers to fit urban cars with bullbars, which protect the car and its passengers [at the cost of pedestrians' safety](http://www.dft.gov.uk/rmd/project.asp?intProjectID=10328).
1.3.10.1.10. Con: That the desires of a user are moral or logical is not a given. If someone purchases an armed UAV, it becomes their property to use for their own ends. In practice this means users could launch attacks on neighbors or competitors they don't like; something that is clearly not moral just because they did so using a product that they purchased.
1.3.10.1.11. Con: Licensing rules already recognize that the way in which people use their cars is not simply up to their preferences.
1.3.10.1.11.1. Con: Licensing rules only seek to enforce road rules. In the cases of unavoidable accidents no road rules apply or are of lesser concern than safety.
1.3.10.1.11.1.1. Con: With self-driving cars, rules can be extended to cover accidents also. The point is that licensing has already set a precedent.
1.3.10.1.11.1.2. Pro: When following road rules will result in near-certain death or harm, it is unlikely that people will follow the road rules.
1.3.10.1.11.2. Pro: Normal road-licensed cars have to abide by certain rules, e.g. speed limits, no matter whether the owner's interest might be better served by speeding.
1.3.11. Pro: Prioritising one life over another implicates at least a slight increase in deaths/injuries on a large scale \(compared to an utilitarian or veil of ignorance 'save the most lives' principle\), thus self-protection overall reduces safety for the individual. This would create a so called '[tragedy of the commons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tragedy_of_the_commons)' scenario which should be avoided by legislation.
1.4. Con: Adding additional safety features, such as always favouring the safety of passengers, enables [offsetting behaviours](http://www.theconceptsproject.com/offsetting-behavior/#.WBadF3cRpGE) on the part of car designers and car passengers that \(at the margins\) increases risk in other areas.
1.4.1. Pro: It is plausible that the increased reaction speeds of self-driving cars would mean that they would be allowed to exceed current speed limits. This would reduce safety overall.
1.4.2. Pro: For example, wearing [helmets](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2016/jan/24/bike-helmet-appetite-danger) can cause cyclists to increase the risks that they take.
1.4.3. Con: This only applies if increasing risks elsewhere deliver tangible benefits that make the risk tradeoff worth it.
1.4.3.1. Con: Always favouring a passenger's safety likely reduces the demand for other safety features that do have risk tradeoffs, such as providing better airbags \(extra cost\) or stronger frames \(slower speeds\).
1.4.4. Con: This would be true if private corporations were able to set the conditions of the technology, but there are other options \(such as governments and regulatory bodies\). This sets a floor on the ability of designers to lessen safety features.
1.4.5. Con: Competition will still exist in this field; fewer safety features will lead to a comparative disadvantage to other self-driving car manufacturers who do pursue heightened safety.
1.4.6. Con: Offsetting behaviours are typically voluntarily performed by individuals. Given passengers have little control over a self-driving car the potential offsetting behaviours are curtailed.
1.4.7. Pro: For example, [drivers who wear seat belts may drive faster and more dangerously](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0001457594900957).
1.4.7.1. Con: Yet the benefits of seat belts by far outweigh the harm they cause. The rising rates of their use and the spread of legislation that mandates it are perceived [as a major cause](http://www.who.int/violence_injury_prevention/publications/road_traffic/world_report/safety_restraints_en.pdf) for the decreasing rates of road traffic deaths.
1.4.8. Pro: This creates a moral hazard for the programmers of self-driving cars by lessening their incentives to develop other safety features.
1.4.8.1. Con: With fewer safety features, the passengers of the car would be at heightened risk if an accident did occur. Given that users value their safety in an accident, there is always an incentive to produce safe cars, else they will not be bought.
1.4.8.2. Pro: The developers of self-driving cars will be more careful to ensure that they avoid accidents if the owners/users of the cars they make are the ones who bear the brunt of any harms.
1.5. Pro: -> See 1.3.10.1.4.1.
1.6. Con: If harm must be caused by a self-driving car, it should be inflicted on those who are most at fault for the accident.
1.6.1. Con: The passengers of self-driving cars are not causally responsible for any accidents that they cause.
1.6.1.1. Con: The passenger is at fault because they choose to employ the car for their purposes.
1.6.1.1.1. Con: This is an argument for strict liability in any car accident which no jurisdiction employs.
1.6.1.1.2. Con: Some passengers can hardly be held responsible for the actions of the car, such as any children who were placed in the car by their parents.
1.6.1.1.2.1. Con: Children, in general, are not held to be responsible for anything of significance. That responsibility falls to their guardians, as children have limited cognition and agency.
1.6.1.1.2.1.1. Con: But even if the responsibility falls on the parents, the costs of the action are borne by the children.
1.6.1.2. Con: Self-driving cars could have different modes that the driver can choose from, for example to prioritize comfort or a scenic route of speed. Volvo's [Concept 26](http://www.volvocars.com/intl/about/our-innovation-brands/intellisafe/intellisafe-autopilot/c26) with its different amenity modes already points in this direction. In this case, the passenger would partially determine the self-driving car's behavior and be at fault.
1.6.1.2.1. Con: The passenger may determine the behaviour patterns of a self-driving car to an extent, but this does not mean fault should be attributed to them.
1.6.1.2.1.1. Pro: It is reasonable to expect that, when selecting a behaviour pattern, the car will not drive in a way that is unsafe in order to behave as requested. Driving in an acceptably safe manner will always be the highest priority.
1.6.1.3. Pro: -> See 1.3.10.1.4.1.
1.6.1.4. Pro: The passenger is not in control of the car when it is in self-drive mode. They are passengers and not active drivers so cannot be liable for a car that is not controlled by them.
1.6.2. Pro: Even if an accident was unavoidable it is likely that one party is more at fault for the situation — i.e. a pedestrian jaywalking; a car seeking to overtake; a malfunction in sensing equipment.
1.6.2.1. Pro: If self-driving cars decide to kill the passengers then passengers of self driving cars can be murdered by a pedestrian simply jumping in front of the car.
1.6.2.1.1. Pro: Self preservation is important in the programming of the car. If it is programmed any other way it can be taken advantage of. For example five people decide to jump out in front of a car knowing it will choose to harm the passengers over the crazy activists jumping out in the road.
1.6.3. Pro: The passengers of the car in question are the most causally-responsible for the actions of the car. If an accident occurs it is most moral that the passengers \(rather than any third parties\) are the ones who should bear the brunt of any harms caused by the car.
1.6.3.1. Pro: We cannot meaningfully 'blame' a self-driving car for an accident because it is not sentient. Thus we have to blame the users of the self-driving car because they engaged its services.
1.6.3.1.1. Con: It is the manufacturer's responsibility to create a flawless self-driving car. In the case of error it is the manufacturer's fault.
1.6.3.1.1.1. Con: It is impossible for anything to be completely flawless. A more reasonable standard is as error free as possible. But this still means some errors will arise.
1.6.3.1.2. Con: Artificial intelligence, using techniques such as Deep Learning, have been shown to exhibit behaviors such as developed a preference for a particular free time activity. As advances in AI generate more sentience-like behaviors, we should begin to allocate them sentience-like considerations such as blame.
1.6.3.1.2.1. Pro: Developing preferences is an example of AIs exercising subjectivity and thus experiencing some form of [qualia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qualia). This is a [key criteria for developing sentience](http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/sentience).
1.6.3.1.3. Pro: -> See 1.3.10.1.3.3.
1.6.3.2. Pro: The passengers have chosen a form of transport that is comparatively much more dangerous \(to third parties\) than walking or biking. They, more than anyone else, should bear the risks of that choice.
1.6.3.2.1. Pro: -> See 1.2.4.2.
1.6.3.2.2. Con: In a world where all self-driving cars act this way then pedestrians would presumably all know this and thus have consented to the greater harm. This is no different to pedestrians today acknowledging the risk of getting hit by a normal car when they decide to walk somewhere.
1.6.3.2.2.1. Con: It is immoral for pedestrians to be made to consent to increased risks due to the selfish behaviour of drivers.
1.6.3.2.2.2. Con: Pedestrians cannot freely consent to this greater harm because it is highly impractical to choose not to walk places sometimes.
1.6.3.2.2.3. Con: -> See 1.2.4.1.1.
1.6.3.2.2.4. Con: Pedestrians do not have control, and so do not meaningfully consent. They do not have the option of roads without these cars; that possibility is taken away from them.
1.6.3.2.3. Pro: By choosing to travel by car rather than more vulnerable forms of transport passengers are at least implicitly valuing their own safety over that of others. Self-driving cars should correct this balance when choosing to distribute harm.
1.6.3.2.3.1. Con: For people who utilize their car out of convenience or because no other form of transportation is feasible, safety is neither an explicit nor an implicit factor they consider.
1.6.3.2.4. Pro: Cars are large objects that travel at high speeds. Even when autonomous they pose an unreciprocated danger to pedestrians and cyclists who lack the protections of a car.
1.6.3.2.5. Con: On the flipside, pedestrians and cyclists have chosen a mode of transport that renders them particularly vulnerable. By the same logic, they should be responsible for the consequences of that.
1.6.3.3. Con: The self-driving car could have been brought into this situation by a third party. That person or entity would always be more to blame than the passengers.
1.6.3.3.1. Pro: If a programmer who wrote the self-driving car's code made a mistake, thus causing the car to have an accident, the passengers in the self-driving car would not be to blame.
1.6.3.3.2. Pro: If a human in traffic made a mistake such as abruptly and illegally crossing the street, it could force the self-driving car into an accident. The passengers in the self-driving car would then not be to blame.
1.6.3.3.3. Pro: If another car, due to driver or software error makes a mistake, then that car caused the accident. The passengers in the  self-driving car would thus not be to blame.
1.6.3.3.4. Con: While there are other people in the chain of causation, they are often not present at the accident \(for example, a manufacturer\). However, in choosing between the passenger and a random other person, the passenger is still more to blame than the random person.
1.6.3.4. Con: -> See 1.6.1.1.2.
1.6.3.5. Pro: The passengers of a self driving car have accepted responsibility for putting it into the public space, and consequently should accept responsibility if more people's lives are at stake. Else the driver passengers should be prioritized.
1.6.3.6. Pro: With greater power \(speed\) comes greater responsibility. The willingness to save time by using the car means passengers carry the responsibility and consequence of the car's capabilities or lack of. The passenger is not passive just because they are not driving.
1.6.3.7. Pro: Passengers of self-driving cars have opted for using the technology whereas bystanders or pedestrians have not. The moral dilemma inherently involved with self-driving cars can't be solved but this burden should be bore by those who impose this dilemma on the public: those who willingly use the technology.
1.6.3.8. Con: Compared to a non-self-driving car, the driver is to blame only if their choices violate traffic laws. If a car is driven in the right way \(by itself or by a human\) and a jaywalker suddenly appears, it should only attempt to avoid an accident if it doesn't endanger people other than the jaywalker. If that is not possible, the consequences must be taken by the walker.
1.6.4. Con: Fault is not a universally accepted means of understanding blameworthiness. For example, in [Japan](https://www8.gsb.columbia.edu/articles/ideas-work/blame-game) blame is rarely assigned to an individual, and is instead shared by all parties involved.
1.6.5. Con: It is unrealistic to expect that self-driving cars can figure out who is at fault ahead of time. So far, it is oftentimes even difficult to figure out who is at fault after the fact.
1.6.5.1. Pro: Determining fault is often a complex moral calculus that it may be exceedingly difficult to describe in computational terms.
1.6.5.2. Pro: The sensors and computers of a car should be dedicated to avoiding accidents, not determining fault.
1.6.5.2.1. Con: Computers and sensors are cheap relative to the cost of a car and/or healthcare. We can easily add as many to self-driving cars as is necessary.
1.6.5.2.2. Con: Determining fault and avoiding accidents are likely actions that draw from the exact same sets of data.
1.6.5.3. Pro: An Al "fault-ratio" would be impossible to calculate. You cannot rate the fault of a ten-year-old stepping onto the street or of a cyclist who falls off a broken bike.
1.6.5.4. Con: A self driving car would strictly follow the law, making the pedestrian the one who is at fault in most cases \(this excludes malfunctions in the software or inhibited sensors\)
1.6.6. Pro: Self-driving cars, being artificially intelligent and therefore not subject to human error, are likely to drastically improve safety for road users either way. Given this, it is more probable that a potential crash is the fault of a party other than the self-driving car.
1.6.6.1. Pro: Given that we are assuming fully autonomous driving, the passenger would not be at fault for the upcoming accident. The other person, however, may be \(e.g. if they stepped onto the road in a reckless manner\). In cases of doubt, it would be morally right to err on the side of the person more likely to be innocent.
1.6.7. Con: The person at fault \(and who thus accepts the risks of their decision\) will almost certainly never be the passengers as their self-driving car can be presumed to never break traffic laws — especially if all cars are linked to a network and are able to coordinate.
1.6.7.1. Con: There are cases where it might be necessary to kill an innocent bystander, for example a pedestrian on the sidewalk, in order to save the passengers. The passengers chose to get into an object moving at lethal speeds, the pedestrian did not.
1.6.8. Pro: We are responsible for our own actions and must accept the consequences ourselves. If one decides to step in front of a moving car, it is morally correct to take the negative consequences yourself. Therefore context as to how this situation arose is essential to the car's decision.
1.6.9. Pro: Terms of Service are only applicable to the user accepting them. The passenger has consented to the risks involved in utilising a self-driving car with full knowledge that they may be involved in an accident. Passing pedestrians have not consented to these risks.
1.6.9.1. Con: Passing pedestrians did assume the risk of crossing a road at the moment of stepping on it. It doesn't matter if the car is self-driven or not, the jaywalker is the only one to blame in the event of a crash.
1.7. Pro: -> See 1.3.8.1.
1.8. Pro: -> See 1.3.10.1.
1.9. Pro: Behaviour that does not prioritise the owner creates an incentive for owners to hack or modify their car's programming.
1.9.1. Con: Behavior that does not prioritize the lives of passengers would probably become a statutory requirement for self-driving cars. In this case, hacking and modifications would be illegal, and most users be deterred from doing so.
1.9.1.1. Pro: There are plenty of examples for statutory restrictions of vehicles' behavior, for example the requirement of having a speed limiter for all cars [in Nigeria](http://guardian.ng/features/executive-motoring/speed-limiter-frscs-hyperbolic-solution-for-over-speeding/) and for mopeds, public service and heavy goods vehicles [in the United Kingdom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speed_limiter#Statutory_.28UK.29).
1.9.2. Pro: The digital software of a self-driving car is not different to the physical composition of a product such as a bicycle. Users have the right to modify their property in any way they desire if the product is not doing what they want.
1.9.2.1. Con: Governments draw such distinctions all the time, for example, allowing you to make various changes to your house, but not to use sub-par building materials that might pose a risk to yourself, visitors, and future owners.
1.9.2.2. Con: Presumably, if one were to change parts of their bicycle so that it deliberately attacked random bystanders in the street whenever the rider were threatened, there might also be some legal questions surrounding that.
1.9.2.3. Con: To change your bicycle's parts is quite a basic task which does not require highly specialized skills, contrary to coding, programming and understanding interdependencies between hard- and software.
1.9.2.3.1. Pro: A dilettantish software manipulation on self-driving cars can have disastrous consequences.
1.9.2.3.1.1. Pro: Were an individual to change critical tuning parameters in the car's speed regulation, it could easily cause the car to speed up instead of slow down in dangerous situations.
1.9.2.3.2. Con: Users who wished to change the programming could presumably do so by installing software created by people who have the specialized skills to make safe self-driving software.
1.9.2.3.3. Con: Presumably only the users with specialised skills necessary will be the ones who actually do this. Regular people do not tinker with their car's hardware unless they know what they are doing.
1.9.2.3.4. Con: Just because a task is difficult it does not mean it is illegal or immoral. We allow people the option of performing complex repairs/modifications to hardware/software that they own at present.
1.9.2.3.4.1. Con: This draws a false parallel. We allow people to perform modifications to their property only when the outcomes don't have potential to cause great harm. Modifying the software of a self-driving cars has the potential for great harm.
1.9.2.3.4.2. Con: Many such modifications are actually breaches of terms of service, if not explicitly illegal.
1.9.2.4. Con: Governments already strictly regulate the design of cars, such as by controlling what engine specifications are considered roadworthy. It is likely that the behaviours of self-driving cars would be regulated in a similar manner.
1.9.2.4.1. Pro: For example, many countries ban modifications such as loud exhaust pipes, radar detection devices, chassis-mounted neon lights, modified headlights and tinted windows.
1.9.2.5. Pro: To allow the creators of software and technology to override the will of users is to create a "[neo-feudal system of perpetual corporate ownership](http://boingboing.net/2016/09/19/hp-detonates-its-timebomb-pri.html)."
1.9.2.5.1. Con: -> See 1.4.4.
1.9.2.6. Pro: Their modifications however may render their product ineligible for use in some arenas. I can put sharpened blades all over the outside of my car; it's my property and that is my right. I should not be surprised though if my car is then deemed unsuitable to share the road system with others. Ownership is one thing, participation in shared systems is another, and may legitimately require constraints.
1.9.3. Pro: When an user jailbreaks their iPhone, they reduce the security of the device, rendering it more [open to hacking](http://www.iphone4jailbreak.org/does-jailbreak-make-iphone-vulnerable-to-hackers.html). Assuming this technology were similar, if users hack or modify their cars' programming, it reduces the cybersecurity of the cars, making them more vulnerable to control by other hackers who want to use them for harm.
1.9.3.1. Con: Hacking does not necessarily make a device more vulnerable. It is possible to hack devices to make them more secure. For example, counter-viruses and worms exist which close the attack vector by which they spread.
1.9.3.2. Con: If people think that their car will kill them, it will not stop them from hacking their car, even if it lowered their car's security. People tend to be less focused on downstream consequences when dealing with immediate problems. Further, they could justify it by saying that the probability that they would even be hacked is incredibly low, and the marginal loss of security is worth it.
1.9.4. Con: Hacking or modifying the car's programming is perhaps morally acceptable.
1.9.4.1. Con: Hacking the vehicle's programming to accept the killing of others to save the owner's life would be akin to developing an autonomous weapon.
1.9.5. Con: Tampering with ethics programming would likely result in a murder/manslaughter charge in the event of an accident.
1.9.6. Pro: It is impossible for the vehicle to determine the circumstances under which a pedestrian\(s\) came to be positioned in the path of the vehicle. The act could be intentional, knowing that the vehicle would swerve and potentially kill the driver. An easy and convenient murder. If the vehicle is incapable of determining intent, it has to default to protecting the passenger\(s\).
1.9.7. Pro: If the safety benefits of self-driving cars rely on the communication of cars with each other [in a network](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/534981/car-to-car-communication/), hacked or modified cars have the potential to disrupt this network through incompatibilities.
1.9.7.1. Pro: If self-driving cars communicate in a networked manner they will likely need to all operate in a predictable fashion in order to best coordinate. Unpredictable behaviour caused by hacked/modified software threatens this.
1.9.8. Pro: Users would likely be able to \(or would at least want to be able to\) configure the ethical settings of their cars though; especially if said settings had a chance of causing them harm in the future.
1.10. Con: -> See 1.3.10.1.1.
1.11. Con: If the passengers in question were instead the third party at risk \(i.e. if they were pedestrians or passengers in another vehicle\) they would want the self-driving car to consider their own lives. It is moral hypocrisy for passengers to always favour only their own lives and to not extend the same consideration to others.
1.11.1. Pro: This is consistent with Kant's[Categorical Imperative](http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/kant-moral/#ForUniLawNat), one of the most widely recognized ethical standards.
1.11.2. Con: By the same token, if these third parties owned their own self-driving car, it is reasonable to assume that they would want their own car to prioritize their life.
1.11.2.1. Con: It is reasonable to assume that people would prioritise their lives over others, but that does not necessarily make that choice a moral or utile one from anyone else's perspective \(e.g., the designers of self-driving cars\).
1.11.3. Pro: This loosely conforms to [Rawls' Veil of Ignorance](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Veil_of_ignorance). If everyone involved didn't know if they would be driver or pedestrian, they would want the car to maximize the number of people alive to give themselves the best chance at life.
1.11.4. Con: That said, the passenger is not the pedestrian making the argument inconsequential. People's ideas of self preservation will make them favour either themselves or the pedestrian.
1.11.4.1. Pro: Self preservation is a basic instinct shared between most if not all animals. A car that goes directly against this instinct is unlikely to succeed.
1.12. Con: -> See 1.3.10.1.2.
1.13. Pro: Most drivers would instinctually act to save their own lives in an unavoidable accident. This just replicates this behaviour.
1.13.1. Pro: By choosing to act against the best interests of the driver, the car would therefore be inserting itself into the decision making process in a way that would cause a direct imposition upon an individual's rights. This would be a moral wrong \(according to [deontology](http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/ethics-deontological/)\) as it creates a harm that would otherwise be absent.
1.13.2. Con: A decision being based on human instinct does not make that decision morally correct.
1.13.2.1. Pro: Thinking that instincts are inherently good is the [naturalistic fallacy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naturalistic_fallacy), "Something is natural; therefore, it is morally acceptable." Assuming we should replicate this behavior commits this fallacy, also called an [appeal to nature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Appeal_to_nature), put forward by the philosopher [G.E. Moore](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/moral-non-naturalism/#NatFal).
1.13.3. Con: A major reason self-driving cars have been developed is for the purpose of not making what are considered "mistakes" that drivers may make instinctually. Self-driving car algorithms are supposed to stop that instinctual action from having to take place by making the action for the driver. There's no use in perfectly replicating human nature in self-driving cars.
1.13.4. Pro: The first test of new technologies is to be good enough to emulate old ones. In the same way an electronic acceleration pedal is mimicking the mechanical pedal, autonomous driving assistants should emulate the standard behaviour of the driver to save the occupants of the car.
1.13.5. Con: Thats not always the case. A driver may get off course  to avoid harming a pedestrian and this may lead to driver injury
1.13.6. Pro: The decision to take one's own life belongs to that person alone. As such, the car must take every action to protect its passengers unless instructed otherwise.
1.13.7. Con: Instinctual behavior in an accident is not a subject of conscious decision making, contrary to the programming of a self-driving car.
1.13.7.1. Con: However, were an individual to sit down and consider prior to an accident what they would be likely to do, they would most likely choose to act to save themselves. The instinctual actions are just a reflection of this 'programming'.
1.13.7.2. Con: The divide between conscious and unconscious or conscious and instinct is a dubious one, as we still hold people accountable in life-and-death scenarios for an act done out of habit or reflexively.
1.13.7.2.1. Con: That may be true, but there is legal room to classify a conscious premeditated act as bearing more moral weight than a reflexive or instinctual act; such as the distinction between murder and manslaughter.
1.13.7.3. Con: It very well may be the case that self-driving cars would have safety systems that respond automatically or reflexively. If so these actions would not be "conscious."
1.13.7.3.1. Con: This does not fully negate the original problem, as there would still have to be a conscious programmer to install the reflexive systems.
1.13.7.4. Pro: The nature of instinctual behaviour is that it proceeds so rapidly and reflexively as to escape critical consideration.