Discussion Title: Will virtual reality (VR) be the future of school attendance?

1. School attendance should take place in virtual reality \(VR\)
1.1. Con: Hybrid learning is better than VR and brick-and-mortar settings.
1.1.1. Pro: [Mixed reality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mixed_reality) would be better than VR.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Mixed reality is more flexible for environments \(can be in use at home or on-the-go\)
1.1.1.2. Pro: Mixed reality has more options, allowing it to be either integrated at schools \(including a hybrid setting\) or used at home
1.1.1.2.1. Pro: Mixed reality has more options where it has the features of both VR and mixed reality, whereas VR provides only one setting choice.
1.1.1.3. Pro: Mixed reality is more natural to use, making it more comfortable to learn with than VR.
1.1.1.4. Pro: Mixed reality allows for "[embodied learning](http://www.move2learn.education.ed.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/Lindgren-2013-Embodied-Learning-and-Mixed-Reality.pdf)", as people are more used to interacting in the physical rather than digital environment \(which could impact their education\).
1.1.2. Pro: A VR type scenario would work for most things. Athletics and possibly shop classes would have to be handled as a separate thing. Additionally when they restructure they could pay one parent to be at home and supervise their kids during school hours and also make sure they perform and do the work. The money to pay the parent could be repurposed off of the expense it was taking to keep the brick-and-mortar schools open, plus some of the brick-and-mortar school buildings could be repurposed to rent
1.2. Pro: VR is the future and schools should catch up with technological progress
1.2.1. Pro: We should use all forms of technology \(such as AI, AR, Social Media, Gaming and especially VR\) for learning and advancing. As it is all here to stay we should use it for good.
1.2.1.1. Pro: I work in the environmental sustainability field.  We could help children experience and see slaves clear cutting forests, over-harvesting fisheries, strip mining land, etc.  Instead of it being out of sight, out of mind, we give visceral experience so we can incite response and ultimate action.
1.3. Pro: VR addresses problems that schools cause
1.3.1. Pro: VR is more eco-friendly than schools
1.3.1.1. Pro: Schools take up land space that takes away from nature
1.3.1.2. Pro: Schools use pesticides to keep pests down for students
1.3.1.3. Pro: Resources are heavily used to construct schools
1.3.1.4. Pro: People commute to schools in cars, which pollutes the atmosphere
1.3.1.4.1. Pro: The cars that people drive in to school with tend to be gas-guzzling SUV's to carry multiple kids and school/sports equipment with
1.3.1.5. Pro: People exert less energy to go to school in VR, which can cause them to eat less
1.3.1.5.1. Con: Easy access and availability of food at home might cause students to eat more than usual
1.3.2. Pro: VR addresses the issue of overcrowding in schools.
1.3.2.1. Pro: With VR learning, students can learn outside the classroom from any location, addressing the overcrowding issue which can have a positive impact on their performance.
1.3.2.1.1. Pro: Overpopulation in schools [negatively impacts](http://education.seattlepi.com/overpopulation-schools-affecting-test-scores-2121.html) student test scores.
1.3.2.2. Pro: This is less stressful for everyone, from students that do not need to worry about sharing limited resources to parents that do not need to search for the best school to teachers/schools not worried about the educational infrastructure requiring a bigger budget.
1.3.3. Pro: VR is a safer environment than a school.
1.3.3.1. Pro: People do not need to leave their home and face dangers outside of it
1.3.3.2. Pro: Schools are targets for hazards \(such as shootings\) that VR does not encounter
1.3.3.3. Pro: People can take breaks anytime in VR, which is beneficial to their well-being.
1.4. Con: VR might not provide the best educational system for students
1.4.1. Con: Students have more educational flexibility in VR \(such as field trips in VR or reality\) that help students more than school
1.4.2. Pro: VR technology is not fully developed and could get in the way of learning
1.4.3. Con: Students could attend courses taught by eminent researchers instead of underfunded high-school teachers.
1.4.3.1. Con: Eminent researchers would get too much demand. They can't teach thousands of students at once, otherwise it could not be personalized and they would not have time to answer students' questions.
1.5. Con: VR is not as healthy for students as going to school
1.5.1. Con: There are no properties of physical reality that VR would not be able to eventually contain, and thus VR could be made to be healthy in all of the ways that physical schools are currently healthy.
1.5.2. Con: Schools are not healthy to be in in the long-term, and VR gives students a choice to avoid unhealthy/unsafe situations that schools create.
1.5.2.1. Pro: People spread illnesses quickly to others in school settings. Getting sick impedes learning greatly for days/weeks. VR could prevent issues associated with this.
1.5.2.1.1. Pro: People can learn in VR while ill, as they can stay and learn in at home while they get better. This prevents students from choosing between their health and learning when people need to get better.
1.5.2.1.2. Pro: If students get sick, they can learn in VR instead of passing their illnesses onto others. Since falling ill is a distraction from studies, less people being sick means better capabilities to learn.
1.5.2.2. Pro: Sitting down in class for hours at a time is not healthy for students and VR could allow people to exercise.
1.5.2.2.1. Pro: Students could do the VR on a recumbent bicycle
1.5.2.2.2. Con: VR might provide an avenue for lethargy and they will most likely not even leave their bed for school, which is less exercise than going to one
1.5.2.3. Pro: Students do not get the healthiest food at school, due to the lack of options \(either school lunches, bringing one's own, having it dropped off, or get delivery from a restaurant\). People could make food fresh when they get hungry at home instead, which would be fresher and healthier than at school.
1.5.3. Pro: VR can be distracting
1.5.3.1. Pro: Electronics in general are distracting, as they cause people to lose their focus when they are on it
1.5.3.1.1. Pro: Companies like Facebook and Google try their best to keep people on their websites, which can take away from the learning experience.
1.5.3.2. Pro: Having twice as many environments presents twice as many noises.
1.5.3.3. Con: VR can be less distracting, because one can customize the environment to suit their needs. This feature allows students to eliminate anything distracting in their environment, which is not possible in a classroom.
1.5.3.4. Con: The efforts of going to school \(such as getting ready and travel to the school\) take away from learning. If a student just puts on VR goggles, that would be much less distracting than going to a brick-and-mortar school.
1.5.3.5. Con: Students will not be distracted by other students while in VR, allowing them to focus and excel at their studies.
1.5.3.6. Pro: Students would find a more difficult time in asking others for help or working on group projects, due to the isolating aspects of VR.
1.5.3.7. Pro: Since VR schools are highly customizable, perfectionists might get distracted by the endless options and the never-satisfied feeling each feature provides them
1.5.3.8. Con: VR allows people to learn faster, because they are not held back by the class. If someone wants to move ahead with their studies without breaks, they can do so without worries about messing up the learning process for others.
1.5.3.9. Con: If a student brings up future material that the class did not get to yet, teachers and students get confused and distracted. This would not happen in VR, as the student's the only one in the class.
1.5.3.9.1. Con: If the VR is set up to have the same pace as a normal class setting, then this could still be a distraction. Only one with a self-paced setting would make learning ahead of the class possible.
1.5.4. Pro: Schools provide a social background for students to develop social skills compared to the isolation that VR brings
1.5.4.1. Con: VR could be made to help students gain a social life digitally, just like how social media has for many people
1.5.5. Pro: School can teach students about health with lessons that reinforce them.
1.5.5.1. Con: Same could take place in VR.
1.5.6. Con: Students get more time to relax during their breaks, because they do not have to spend a lot of their time walking to break areas.
1.5.6.1. Pro: Breaks are beneficial to prevent stress and anxiety. This can improve learning, by allowing students to focus on their studies better instead of their health.
1.5.6.1.1. Con: Students can also take less breaks with VR if they are really interested in what they are learning, don't need it, or found a way to take breaks while learning \(like eating while studying\).
1.5.6.2. Con: If students take too many breaks during their studies, they might lose concentration and understanding of what they are learning. Picking up where one left off is difficult.
1.5.7. Con: VR provides a safe zone for students.
1.5.7.1. Con: Students should learn to confront problems within groups rather than alone.
1.5.7.2. Pro: VR field trips could allow people to virtually go places in a safe and interactive manner that could not accomplish otherwise in reality.
1.5.7.3. Con: Visiting digital representations of monuments, while better than not seeing them at all, can't recreate the experience of being at a physical site.
1.5.7.3.1. Con: Sometimes a person could get even better experience in VR than reality. For instance, in a museum a person cannot touch a painting. In VR, someone could not only touch a painting, but also zoom in and manipulate it \(like draw on top of it\).
1.5.7.3.2. Pro: For example, visiting the site of a former concentration camp can create a multitude of [emotions](http://www.spiegel.de/international/touring-a-concentration-camp-a-day-in-hell-a-338820.html) that documentaries or other virtual experiences cannot recreate.
1.6. Pro: VR allows students to be more comfortable in the learning process
1.6.1. Con: This also means parents would have to provide suitable space for schooling at home. For many, this may not be possible.
1.6.1.1. Con: Laws could be changed to require parents to create a space for students to learn at home.
1.6.1.2. Con: Students don't have to learn at home. With better VR technology, students could possibly learn anywhere.
1.6.2. Pro: VR allows for more flexible schedules, where if people need to go to appointments or address emergency situations. Students do not have to worry about missing class and have more privacy in tending their needs \(instead of getting calls from schools and explaining why they are missing\).
1.6.3. Pro: Students could customize the setting they are learning in
1.6.4. Pro: Students could set up their real environment \(the location where a person participates outside of VR\) permanently.
1.6.4.1. Pro: In school, students get shuffled around to where they lose the sense of permanence in their surroundings.
1.6.4.2. Pro: This is beneficial because it can be developed \(i.e. built upon\), customized, not lose items in, keep reference items, and be there when school is over.
1.7. Con: VR should not be a complete substitute for human interaction.
1.7.1. Con: Human interaction happens all the time electronically and digitally. Some people even feel more comfortable behind a computer, and eventually comfortable enough to socialize in the real world.
1.7.2. Pro: We could use classrooms for real learning and action based projects and collaboration.  Teaching team building and relationship management in person and using VR and tech tools for downloading data in a more interesting and participatory manner.
1.7.2.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.7.1.
1.7.2.2. Con: Students can form groups and work together better in VR than in person.
1.7.2.2.1. Pro: One of those reasons is that it is easier to meet up in VR than in person, where a person might not show up.
1.7.2.2.2. Pro: Sharing and editing ideas and files are much easier in VR than in person, especially where inefficiencies arise, such as each person talks over each other or devalues others' opinions.
1.7.3. Pro: Kids don't retain stuff they hear a teacher say or read in a book the same way, particularly when they are on all types of infobesity-inducing devices these days, such as tv, phones, laptops, games, etc.
1.7.4. Con: Learning could be hybridized where most \(95%\) is in VR and students meet at school a few times a year to make sure students are on the right track, go on field trips in reality, and take standardized or final tests.
1.7.4.1. Pro: This is similar to the concept of homeschooling, which is legal in some countries and was common practice until the beginning/middle of the last century for practical reasons.
1.8. Pro: VR provides another option to people who learn better in it than school, as there is not a one-size-fits-all method to teaching/learning.
1.8.1. Pro: VR allows students and teachers to meet in circumstances otherwise not possible
1.8.1.1. Pro: Some of these circumstances include disability, illness, and bullying
1.8.2. Pro: VR adds more variety to learning.
1.8.3. Pro: VR makes getting an education more accessible.
1.8.3.1. Con: The cost of VR is can be very high, limiting accessibility.
1.8.3.2. Pro: Students could "attend" specialized courses and focus on working on their individual strengths.
1.8.3.3. Pro: Students with disabilities could participate in classes without having to navigate potential obstacles in the physical world.
1.8.3.4. Pro: Students from anywhere in the world could sit in classes of their choosing \(if schools are okay with this\).
1.8.3.4.1. Pro: This can allow some students a better education that what they could receive in their vicinity.
1.8.3.5. Pro: VR allows for greater levels of education at a lower budget, lowering financial obstacles that hold some people back.
1.8.3.5.1. Con: VR devices can get expensive with higher-quality experiences.
1.8.3.5.1.1. Con: When smartphone prices start to drop to almost free and have the same capabilities at high-end VR devices, then costs will not be an issue.
1.9. Pro: VR introduces students to technological capabilities, which can inspire them and help them learn valuable technological skills.
1.9.1. Con: It is unclear whether this would be the case. Today's students use technology without necessarily learning how it functions or how it was created.
1.9.1.1. Pro: Most students in Western countries use computers to do their school work, but the majority doesn't know how to program or perform hardware maintenance.