Discussion Title: World Cup soccer should have a backcourt foul

1. World Cup soccer should have a backcourt foul: a pass from the attacking half to the defending half must pass through the circle \(or result in a free kick\).
1.1. Con: A free kick awarded on this basis could lead to a counterattack.  The shift in formation would be far more dramatic than most free kicks.
1.2. Con: The criterion of passing through the circle could be difficult to adjudicate for passes high in the air.
1.2.1. Con: Passes are rarely high in the air, especially in this part of the field.
1.2.2. Pro: For the referee this is difficult to judge correctly which might lead to additional disputes about wrong decisions.
1.3. Con: Tracking this type of infraction would add to the responsibilities of referees and line judges, detracting attention from their other duties.
1.3.1. Con: It would be possible to appoint an additional official to track whether backwards passes were legal.
1.3.2. Con: It would be possible to use automated technology to track backwards passes.
1.3.2.1. Con: Using relatively untested technology is bound to produce unpredictable results.
1.4. Con: Players might not know how the ball will bounce and curl when they initiate a pass.  Fouls should generally be tied to intent.
1.5. Pro: Encouraging positive play at midfield could reward players who have excellent ball-handling skills.
1.6. Pro: Directing backwards passes to cross the field could lead to interceptions that result in breakaways: the logical consequence of repeatedly passing the ball backwards.
1.7. Con: The inclusion of this rule would limit the passing opportunities of midfield and full back players, creating triangles to burst past the defensive players. Dividing the attacking and defending players in this fashion would also regress the modern philosophy of the game, which includes the players in all phases of play
1.8. Pro: Passes to defenders and to the keeper are rarely intercepted.
1.9. Con: There's a difference between high-scoring football and entertaining football, whilst they may sometimes be concurrent they are not concomitant. Many of the most entertaining football teams utilize the whole width of the field to create space in their opponents formation.
1.9.1. Con: When the ball is moved backwards, the strikers often don't chase it because there is no chance of a turnover.
1.10. Con: The rule might encorage more longballs, missing out the midfield alltogether, when teams decide to push up defensively. The majority of fans dislike long ball style as it is a far worse game to watch.
1.11. Con: Part of the beauty of soccer is the simplicity of the rules and lack of stoppage time in the game, especially compared to American Football or basketball.
1.11.1. Con: Backcourt foul is not a very complex rule.
1.11.2. Con: While soccer does not stop as much as other sports, it does stop for fouls or penalties. This would just include one more type of foul, hardly a lot of stoppages.
1.12. Pro: The midfield line and circle are currently not used for anything except the opening kickoff.  This rule would make them more like the other lines on the field.
1.13. Con: The midfield is actually the center of the field and not an obstacle in the attacking development. A lot of moves are based on the forwards-backwards passing. For example a pass backwards might intend to invite pressure from the opponent in order to reduce its vertical compactness and open the defensive lines. A new rule such as the one suggested would have as big impact as repealing the offside rule.
1.13.1. Con: Backwards passing in that area would still be totally available, it would simply have to cross the middle of the field as well \(in order to touch the circle\).
1.13.1.1. Con: Surely, but It would lead the opposition forwards to cover every pass trying to pass through the centre, making it unrealistic to move backwards. A lot of triangle options would be lost for not so much gain in terms of attacking orientation
1.14. Pro: Moving the ball backwards with impunity diminishes the competitiveness of the sport.
1.15. Con: This rule might change the tactics of some team. For example, Italy plays defensive football and the rule breaks their tradition.
1.16. Con: Tiring out midfielders too much could lead to injuries.
1.17. Con: Compelling teams to create offensive pressure in the early rounds could fatigue them and diminish the level of play in the final rounds.
1.18. Pro: Encouraging positive play would reduce the number of games ending in a tie.
1.19. Pro: Midfielders could still move the ball backwards easily, so long as the ball passed through the circle.
1.20. Con: Such a dramatic change to the rules would confuse players.
1.21. Pro: Midfielders \(or forwards\) would still be able to move the ball to the back by dribbling it over the line and then passing.