Discussion Title: Would the World Still Thrive Without Human Impact?

1. The world would not thrive without human intervention.
1.1. Con: The world actually does not care and has reinvented itself numerous times. DNA finds a way to go on.
1.1.1. Pro: Maybe a lifeform superior to humans would emerge.
1.2. Pro: Nature would descend into chaos without human controls.
1.2.1. Con: This depends on what one means by 'chaos'; it would be uncontrolled, certainly, not necessarily chaotic.
1.2.2. Con: 'Chaos' is a human concept. If humans did no exist it would be neither chaos nor order it simply would be.
1.2.3. Con: To suggest that humans are currently in control of nature is a patently false claim. Humans are clearly at nature's whim.
1.2.3.1. Pro: This is evidenced in the easy and immediate destruction nature wreaks on humans on a regular basis: natural disasters, poor crops, et cetera.
1.2.3.2. Con: As time wears on, our power over nature is becoming more manifest: we can channel water, earth, fire in ways that are helpful and manageable. It isn't absolute control, but we do still have a notable impact on nature.
1.2.4. Con: The world was doing ok until we came along.
1.3. Pro: Vast areas of the natural habitat would be destroyed without human intervention to prevent forest fires and similar catastrophes.
1.3.1. Con: [Around 84%](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/study-shows-84-wildfires-caused-humans-180962315/) of forest fires are caused by humans.
1.3.2. Con: Man dominates the food chain and harvests it unsustainably. Most of the critical players which kept balance are gone. Global encroachment, development and pavement of critical shoreline, river and lakes junctions, introduction of man-made toxins and global plastic seeding are but a few of the items man introduced to hinder breeding and genetic crossover.
1.3.3. Con: It is [more detrimental](http://www.bbc.co.uk/earth/story/20160722-why-we-should-let-raging-wildfires-burn) to forests that humans try to intervene than if they don't. Human intervention is making the situation considerably worse.
1.4. Pro: Humans are only animals with potential to counteract extinction level events and above.
1.5. Con: It did thrive long before we existed and will continue to do so regardless of humanity's possible existence.
1.6. Con: Without human intervention, nature would be able to revitalize and replenish itself on a more natural and sustainable basis.
1.6.1. Con: Humans are a part of nature, as is the damage and regeneration we carry out.
1.6.2. Pro: Natural evolution and the preservation of species according to their viability would run a natural course rather than being forced.
1.6.2.1. Pro: Unnecessary genetic changes to DNA in animals and plants to sustain humankind would not be needed to ensure life continues.
1.6.2.1.1. Con: This isn't particularly relevant. From a larger perspective humans changing other animal's DNA is just a part of nature. We are one animal adjusting the DNA of another animal. Similarly - Viruses adjust the DNA of host organisms to replicate, there is little difference from a natural perspective.
1.7. Con: Human intervention causes far more damage to nature and world resources than good.
1.7.1. Con: Humans are a part of nature and we are simply doing what comes naturally. On a universal scale, the 'damage' we do to is no more damage than that an ants nest does to a forest floor. We should still move towards more sustainable means for our own good though.
1.7.2. Pro: Often it is unintentional; playing with the natural world has a serious impact.
1.8. Pro: The world would be over-run with disease without human knowledge and assistance.
1.8.1. Con: It simply wouldn't; organisms naturally resist disease through natural selection. Organisms that die through disease can't reproduce, where as those who are naturally immune or develop natural immunity survive and reproduce creating subsequent generation of organisms that are immune.
1.8.2. Con: Most human knowledge and assistance has been to help humans survive, not other organisms; the world would be perfectly fine.
1.9. Con: The mass destruction of species of animals and plants - including the mass murders of humans - would not exist.
1.9.1. Con: It is always possible that, in the absence of humans, a different species would develop and universally dominate; mass destruction may be unavoidable.
1.9.2. Con: Mass destruction happens on a regular basis as a result of natural processes.
1.9.2.1. Pro: Natural disasters are a regular occurrence \(volcanoes, tsunamis, meteor impacts, etc.\)