Discussion Title: Would a global social credit system be beneficial?

1. A global social credit system would be beneficial.
1.1. Con: Safety can be assessed and decided by the individual themselves. Walking through a red light while crossing an empty road doesn't harm anyone. Yet your still get punished for it.
1.1.1. Con: Just because certain behaviors do not cause immediate harm does not mean they wouldn't be negative if everyone would engage in them constantly - like jaywalking.
1.2. Con: It gives the government more knowledge and power over its citizens that can easily be abused.
1.3. Con: If quality of life is to some extent a function of freedom of choice, then social credit would lower the quality of life.
1.4. Pro: It will discourage behavior considered bad and wrong and encourage good behavior
1.4.1. Con: The system does not encourage good behavior but rather efficient behavior.
1.4.1.1. Con: What counts as efficient behavior can be defined and adjusted to equal good behavior.
1.4.2. Con: It may condition the subjects to group-think in the extreme levels. This can have negative consequences, for example, regarding [decision making](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0749597898927583).
1.4.3. Con: What is considered good or bad is decided by a centralized entity and could therefor be corruptible.
1.5. Pro: Any progress that is sought could be achieved more efficiently as the population would be brought into line.
1.6. Pro: [Most countries](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Credit_score) already have a successfully functioning credit score, which proves the idea works at a national level.
1.6.1. Pro: Without these scores, current credit options \(payment plans/credit cards\) would be riskier for the companies, so would likely cost more for consumers.
1.6.1.1. Con: It is by no means clear that the necessity that underpins credit scores for financial purposes can be extended to other areas.
1.6.2. Pro: Although at a smaller scale than a social credit score, the current financial credit score has not been abused.
This suggests that a wider scheme could also be abuse-free.
1.6.3. Con: Showing that the financial version of a credit score works doesn't prove that a wider social version would.
1.7. Pro: The system would allow disadvantaged people to make progress through good behavior, thus increasing intersocial mobility.
1.8. Pro: People who already act good have nothing to fear and will only gain social credit.
1.8.1. Pro: Many hidden, otherwise unappreciated acts of good behavior would be rewarded and many hidden acts of bad behavior punished.
1.8.2. Con: Different cultures have different definitions of "good". A universal definition of "good" would be oppressive to some cultures.
1.8.2.1. Pro: If we take corporal punishment as an example. The scientific community is clear that it is [harmful to children](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3447048/) in many ways. Yet, it is still legal in a majority of countries. Is this good or bad? Well that depends on who you ask.
1.8.3. Con: However, even good people could be punished for accidental mistakes.
1.8.4. Con: Doing good could become competitive, stripping its society from individualism
1.9. Con: It will oppress certain individuals who already have difficulties acting to the status quo.
1.9.1. Con: The status quo will be demystified, because the social credit system has clear rules on what is considered bad or good behavior.
1.9.1.1. Con: It will be harder to find your unique identity if you fear that some quarks might be considered as bad behavior.