Discussion Title: Would Abolishing Privacy Be Beneficial?

1. Abolishing all aspects of privacy \(through an omniscient public database of all observable actions\) would be beneficial to those in liberal democracies.
1.1. Con: The absence of privacy goes against human nature and harms our autonomy.
1.1.1. Pro: Psychologically speaking, we become individuals through the discovery that we 'could' hide something from others — thereby separating ourselves from an otherwise collective society. As such, not only would this technology destroy individual liberty, but ultimately it would repudiate the notion of individuality in its entirety.
1.1.1.1. Pro: Privacy gives us our unique identities. It molds the individual and should not be abolished, in fact it should be protected as a human right. As humans we have a certain ability to handle reality and cope with it and privacy is one of the strongest weapons we have to take a break and recharge. If we are to abolish privacy or weaken it to let's say the degree of China camera surveillance, a highly structured and enforced reality will take place where minds feel imprisoned and not free.
1.1.2. Pro: Without privacy we loose what is to be human. Life is not about knowing; some of its great beauty comes from a place of unsurety and unknowing. This would sterilise human nature.
1.1.2.1. Pro: [Emilio Mordini](http://www.emiliomordini.info/) argued in ["Nothing to Hide"](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-540-89991-4_27) that, psychologically speaking, we only "become" individuals through the discovery that we "can" hide something from others \(we don't "have" to hide anything to be an individual, but we must have the capacity to hide things\) - this is what separates us from an otherwise collective society. As such, this technology would completely undermine, or maybe even destroy, the concept of individuality, and fundamentally alter our understanding of being human.
1.1.2.2. Pro: A crucial experience of growing up is slowly experiencing new aspects of the world. Being able to view anything, anytime, anywhere robs children of this experience and potentially harms their development.
1.1.2.2.1. Pro: Childhood innocence would be lost.
1.1.2.2.2. Con: A child will learn from the environment they are raised in regardless of how a parent would like to shield a child from the "nasty" truths of the world. A child will adapt much faster to a new environment than an adult will. Children of the world are already being robbed of their innocence and it has been shown that some of the best adults have had the worst starts in life.
1.1.2.3. Pro: Humans need the ability to forget to remain sane. We still learn from things we forget, but the psychological pain of memories needs to be locked away or allowed to fade. Without that most people would suffer.
1.1.3. Pro: This will lead to less creativity as everyone would more readily conform to dominant norms.
1.1.3.1. Pro: The instant intrusiveness posed to all new or delicate creativity from the mentally anti-social and destructive would bring instant suppression to all human incentive, hope and productivity.
1.1.3.2. Pro: It would certainly lead to discrimination against those with unpopular viewpoints, even benevolent ones, and would thus limit the creative freedom of people with viewpoints deemed undesirable.
1.1.3.3. Pro: Every \(pro-active\) action would or could immediately full under scrutiny by both peers and future employers.  Because of this, it is likely that society would try to find one perfect way to achieve something and never waver from it because any deviation from it could lead to a publicized failure. It begs the question whether this would damage careers and social standings or not.
1.1.3.4. Pro: Art is at its best when transgressive. Transgressive art often requires freedom to make art without others being able to punish the artist \(e.g. [Ai Weiwei](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ai_Weiwei)\). Therefore, privacy is essential for truly good, creative art.
1.1.3.5. Con: Seven billion people can not conform to any norm beyond the norm of being nice to one another. While there would certainly be a panic at first, people would come to terms with knowing that everyone is different and that those differences cannot be hidden.
1.1.3.5.1. Con: If history has shown anything, it is that being nice to everyone is the one norm that few people can follow.
1.1.3.5.1.1. Con: Privacy is an inherent part of human life, and to a certain extent cannot be eliminated. It is impossible for us to conceive a life where no moments are truly and only our own, and the absence of privacy would always lead to further mistrust toward society in general. Furthermore, the enforcement of a "Ban of Privacy" would necessarily be forceful, totalitarian and to a certain extent, impossible.
1.1.3.6. Pro: The fear of being incorrect in public would prevent many people with introverted personalities from voicing different thought processes or applying different methods of work - therefore stifling creativity and innovation.
1.1.3.6.1. Pro: We will all become the exact same \(do everything in this Database in the same most efficient most acceptable manner\) or we will become outcast? In reality, most of us will be "living a lie to fit in"?
1.1.4. Pro: If norms of honesty and transparency developed in a world where people are always  caught for dishonesty, the morality of future generations would be depend entirely upon that enforcement.
1.1.4.1. Pro: Goodness wouldn't exist by virtue of social utility, respect for others, or any notion of innate or state-granted rights; but rather through performance.
1.1.4.2. Pro: Morals would be enforced by a highly authoritarian "invisible ruler" not by reason or virtue.
1.1.5. Pro: The lack of privacy will force people who don't fit societies mold, especially people with alternative sexualities, to closet themselves and deny who they truly are. People need privacy to experiment. in order too figure out who they really are and what they want in life.
1.1.6. Con: What we currently conceive of 'human nature', such as the experience of autonomy, is not necessarily the best for all people. If human nature changes dramatically it could be for the better.
1.1.7. Pro: Fear of having one's behavior misinterpreted or misjudged would destroy liberty, as everyone would have to foresee possible misjudgments of their behavior and act in a "fool-proof" matter which couldn't be possibly misjudged and hence punished.
1.1.8. Con: The absence of privacy only harms autonomy if society insists on enforcing conformity.
1.1.8.1. Con: The base nature of humanity enforces mass conformity. See the [allegory of the cave.](https://faculty.washington.edu/smcohen/320/cave.htm)
1.1.9. Pro: People can’t always express what they think in public as that isn’t always desirable. Privacy provides the one place where a person can be themselves. Take that away and people are forced to have to constantly watch what they think.
1.2. Con: This will create a [panoptic world](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panopticon) where the constant possibility of shame and punishment causes people to heavily regulate their actions.
1.2.1. Pro: Experiments in total surveillance systems by the Gestapo, KGB, and STASI have always resulted in either a "personality split" \(different behavior when under surveillance and when not\) or strong dissent or even uprising \(because of perception of people of their life being violated and freedom destroyed by the surveillance apparatus\).
1.2.1.1. Con: The key shortcoming of these experiments is the asymmetrical application of privacy removal. Had the privacy of the guards and the experimenters also been removed it would be an apt parallel to draw, but only the prisoners were affected, removing the necessary ability to inspect the inspectors.
1.2.2. Con: Privacy is already being severely eroded. Organizing a government-led abolition seems better than allowing us to create a world where no-one knows to what extent they have any privacy left.
1.2.3. Con: We willingly accept surveillance when it is the lesser of two fears or harms. For example we have tacitly allowed for increasing quantities of CCTV monitors in urban areas because we value safety over privacy. [www.wired.co.uk](http://www.wired.co.uk/article/one-nation-under-cctv)
1.2.3.1. Con: Some people value \(perceived\) safety over privacy while some people value privacy over \(perceived\) safety. This second group is represented by all the quotation of "Whoever chooses a little, temporary safety over essential liberty deserves neither liberty nor safety", popularly attributed to Thomas Jefferson.
1.2.3.1.1. Pro: People are more likely to be wrong in their threat perceptions for safety risks vs privacy risks. Crime in liberal democracies is extremely low and generally declining; most people have little fear of being seriously hurt or killed. In comparison breaches of privacy — in either a social or criminal sense — are very common and look set to only grow.
1.2.3.2. Con: No reason has been offered to suppose that the proliferation of CCTV cameras is the result of a general desire in society for more of them \(or for relatively more security at the expense of privacy\).
1.2.4. Con: In the present day we already live in a [post-panoptic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panopticism#Post-panopticism) world where discipline is ["integrated through seduction rather than policing"](http://socioline.ru/files/5/283/Bauman_Zygmunt_-_On_Postmodern_Uses_Of_Sex.pdf) and individuals are made to conform without even being aware of the underlying structures of control.
1.2.4.1. Con: This is more an argument to bring back some privacy protections we have lost in order to remedy that situation, than to say in for a penny in for a pound.
1.2.4.1.1. Pro: Granting privacy and trust —thereby dignity — will inspire people to behave more morally.
1.2.4.2. Pro: We feel that sharing personal information and opinions with our friends through the social networks is positive, so that we never think about the negative effects.
1.2.4.3. Pro: The "[I have nothing to hide](https://mic.com/articles/119602/in-one-quote-edward-snowden-summed-up-why-our-privacy-is-worth-fighting-for)" argument is very powerful in discouraging people from thinking about negative effects of the post-Panopticon.
1.2.4.3.1. Pro: [Emilio Mordini](http://www.emiliomordini.info/) argued that the "nothing to hide" argument is illogical. People do not need "something to hide" in order to hide "something". What is relevant is not what is hidden, rather the experience that there is an area which 'could' be hidden or restricted.
1.2.4.3.2. Pro: Psychologically speaking, we only become individuals through the discovery that we 'could' hide something from others, thereby separating ourselves from a collective. As such, this technology would destroy 'the individual' in society.
1.2.5. Pro: Humans are probably not very well adjusted to living in a world where they would always be watched and where their actions would continuously be scrutinized, by friends and third parties.
1.2.5.1. Pro: Obsessive peering into the life of others would become common, leading to another epidemic of individuals who are unable or unwilling to work
1.2.5.2. Pro: Bullying among children would go up as it will be easier to find out who is different and doesn't fit in, which would affect the long term mental health of the individual if they are unable from the get-go to fit in.
1.2.5.3. Pro: People will stop revealing their feelings \(opinions\) in fear of blow-back; this could ultimately hinder debate & free-speech. How will the database differentiate between opinion & fact - "who or what decides what's fact & what's opinion & what defines the process?
1.2.5.4. Pro: It would be the first time in humanity's history that humans would not have any place to withdraw to and be safe from prying eyes.
1.2.5.5. Con: Humans are capable of adapting to all kinds of environments.
1.2.5.5.1. Con: Merely being capable of adapting to an environment does not make that environment a better world to live in.
1.2.5.5.2. Pro: Environmental challenges have prompted humans to develop many technologies that extend our abilities far beyond their natural capacities.
1.2.5.6. Pro: Nobody is perfect. The worst of humanity would then come to bear at any opportunity, creating a world of misery dominated by the lowest common denominator.
1.2.6. Pro: Many people are introverts, and require time away from human interaction and the public gaze to "recharge". It is likely that for many of these people, the mere fact of constant possible observation will be a serious source of stress and distress, even in a world where people are used to such observation.
1.2.6.1. Pro: Introverts and those suffering from developmental or other sociopathic mental disorders will integrate poorly or be unable to function under the yoke of an all-seeing authority, particularly those already suffering from overarching paranoia.
1.2.6.2. Con: Introverts will still be able to be alone with their thoughts and capable of isolating themselves from interaction with other people for however long they choose, so in reality they will not lose much.
1.2.6.3. Pro: In the future the lines between distanced contact \(online communication; observation\) and in-person contact will become so blurred. As a result the former may begin to create similar anxieties as the latter. The database would only heighten this.
1.2.7. Con: The fear of public shaming would prevent people from engaging in immoral or selfish behaviour.
1.2.7.1. Con: Someone who is only moral because they would be publicly  shamed otherwise is not a moral person.
1.2.7.1.1. Con: Better to be the person who acts morally because they fear public shame than the person who has no such fear and ends up harming other people as a result.
1.2.7.2. Con: That is overt generalization. Fear of shaming would prevent people from displaying any non-conformist behavior. That may be immoral behavior in some cases, or just behavior exhibited by a few people and unaccepted by the majority in other cases.
1.2.7.3. Con: Morality is, on all observable and logically rigorous accounts, constructed. Depending on what was said to be immoral, a society could publicly shame actions you would personally deem right and good. You assume that the society in question would follow your values specifically.
1.2.7.4. Con: At a certain point, people would be desensitized to the possibility of being publicly shamed.
1.2.7.5. Con: The fear of public shaming would also stop people being true to themselves in ways that aren't necessarily harmful to other people at all, eg. being LGBTQ.
1.2.8. Pro: Individuals should be free to carry out actions that are in their self interest without judgement.
1.2.8.1. Con: The database does not restrict people from carrying out selfish actions, only allows us to judge people for being overly selfish.
1.2.8.2. Con: Even if they should be allowed to carry out these actions, they should be discouraged as much as possible. Society benefits when people do not take selfish actions.
1.2.8.3. Pro: Someone may have access to all of someone's personal info at all times, but they'll never be able to judge the big picture perspective as well as someone who lives in the judged shoes. Living in this distorted world would be harmful to all of us.
1.2.8.3.1. Con: We already have access to a lot of personal information. Only through the elimination of privacy can we hope to gain the "big picture perspective," that would allow us to judge each other charitably and kindly.
1.2.8.4. Con: People should not be allowed to do wrong things.  It is incoherent to hold both, "This action is demonstrably wrong," and "People should be permitted to do this action without consequence."
1.2.8.5. Pro: Current PC thinking produces shame and punishment often meaning public figures are forced out of their positions due to private comments. The database would make this worse; overriding the rule of law as it affords popular decree the power to take away people's rights and protections.
1.2.9. Pro: Immoral and selfish actions could become normalised, in which case they might actually increase.
1.2.9.1. Pro: At present immoral actions such as cheating or drug use are shocking because they are rarely made public. Once they can no longer be hidden they will be normalised and seen as less important.
1.2.9.2. Con: On the other hand, reducing the stigma surrounding drug use and similar acts would be important in de-pathologising them in the popular consciousness and facilitating a more humane approach to drug policy and addiction that would better help the victims of drugs.
1.2.10. Pro: Moral claims are relative to individual circumstances. Individuals are best placed to understand their own circumstances and so they — not society or their peers — are best placed to determine what is moral.
1.2.10.1. Pro: The information presented in the database could be misinterpreted and thus be used against a person.
1.2.10.2. Pro: Removing the effective choice to act morally reduces an individual's moral agency, and the inherent good of them being able to choose to 'do good'.
1.2.10.3. Pro: Things that have been considered 'immoral' in the past are now considered moral e.g. homosexuality, abortion, sex outside of marriage.
1.2.10.4. Pro: Things that are considered immoral by some cultures are considered moral by others \(e.g. contraception\). If individuals cannot determine their own moral code then minority cultures become oppressed.
1.2.10.5. Con: What is moral or not reflects a community's values on what actions are likely to produce harm — they are a set of norms for how to behave such that one's actions do not harm others. People exist within communities and so should have their behaviour guided by that community.
1.2.10.6. Con: With the elimination of privacy, society could better understand each individual's circumstances.
1.2.10.6.1. Pro: Others could better understand the context and reasons for why the action was committed. This may lead to a more understanding judgment.
1.2.10.7. Con: The standard of judgement passed on immoral and selfish actions is inequitable.
1.2.10.7.1. Pro: For example, selfishness tends to be a particularly gendered value judgement. It is a critique that gets disproportionately applied to women.
1.2.11. Pro: People feeling free to act in ways perceived as immoral has been vital to the development and evolution of human morality. This is less likely to happen now, meaning the development of our morality will stagnate.
1.2.11.1. Con: Unprecedented levels of transparency in our actions might actually improve moral discourse by making it less theoretical and more focused on people's revealed preferences for \(im\)moral actions.
1.2.11.2. Con: Previously 'taboo' behaviours which have no real world consequences and are based on religious or outdated morals will become accepted while we will be able to see the real world consequences of behaviours which should not be done, but are currently accepted.
1.2.11.3. Pro: Being LGBT was once illegal and considered immoral. With total surveillance, nobody would have been able to even try to live their life as LGBT and thus it would never have been de-stigmatised.
1.2.12. Con: In a world without privacy as we know it, any person shaming/punishing others invites \(perhaps unwelcome\) counter-scrutiny of themselves. It's possible that this gives rise to an equilibrium reflecting a 'live-and-let-live' ethic to some degree. [See David Brin for more on this idea.](http://www.davidbrin.com/transparentsociety.html)
1.2.12.1. Con: Shaming may become normal behavior, like gossip.
1.2.12.2. Pro: Everyone poops and everyone masturbates; we all have private actions that can be used to shame others.
1.2.12.3. Con: Declared enemies would know everything you know about them & everything about you will be revealed to your declared enemies. When neither side has a distinct technology or some other advantage attack might be perceived as imminent —  causing one-side to live in fear.
1.2.13. Con: Once we know what small indiscretions everyone is engaging in, our views of what is shameful or should be illegal will be transformed. Things that actually cause harm will be banned and things that harm no one will be normalized.
1.2.13.1. Con: Cause and effect are rarely that direct. Often there is no way to tell if something causes problems or not, so harmful behaviours may continue if they fly under the radar in this way.
1.2.13.2. Con: People might misconstrue "disruptive behavior" as the problem instead of the people who are disrupted by it for no reason other than personal values.
1.2.14. Con: We already live in a world with few guarantees of privacy. Wise people already take whatever precautions are available and  behave as honestly and honorably as they can. Thus the panoptic effects of this database are unlikely to be much worse than the status quo.
1.2.14.1. Con: So far, surveillance is far from omnipresent. You don't have to have a social network account, you could leave cellphone home, and if you're in non-urban area paying cash, you cam have nearly 100% privacy.
1.3. Con: Certain work requires privacy to perform effectively.
1.3.1. Pro: Lawyers preparing trial strategies would be unable to keep them from their opposition.
1.3.1.1. Con: The point of lawsuits is largely about uncovering the truth and facts relevant to a particular situation —it is highly unlikely the legal system post-database would resemble anything close to our current system.
1.3.1.2. Con: This would improve legal processes which should be, after all, not about secretive strategies but about unveiling the truth about what happened.
1.3.2. Pro: A complete lack of privacy if it goes to extreme lengths also means no encryption. The internet would not be able to exist without that; nor would online banking. All internet connections over HTTPS are encrypted while over HTTP are not. That means all your traffic is plain text between you and the server and can be viewed by anyone. Anyone would be able to steal your passwords and the lack of security would result in impossibility of online transactions.
1.3.2.1. Con: If The Database did render internet traffic completely transparent it would also obviate a lot of the harms of cyber security breaches, as those who steal user accounts or perform other nefarious activities could be easily traced and prosecuted.
1.3.2.1.1. Pro: Criminal acts would leave clear and indisputable evidence; allowing for police and courts to prosecute the perpetrators with ease.
1.3.2.1.1.1. Con: Whether you are arrested becomes a question of whether the authorities like you or not, since everyone has committed some \(however trivial\) crime, such as accidentally dropping litter.
1.3.2.1.1.2. Con: Many crimes have a necessary element of 'mens rea' —[the intention or knowledge of wrongdoing](http://www.crimemuseum.org/crime-library/mens-rea/). This depends on a criminal's state of mind, and so cannot be captured indisputably by the database.
1.3.2.1.1.2.1. Pro: Even having crystal-clear evidence of the crime is often not enough to establish an individual's motives however. Uncovering these will still be a difficult task, as well as a necessary one — motives are often highly relevant when deciding which crime to charge and in sentencing.
1.3.2.1.1.3. Con: Knowing the state has a great record of nearly all things — including everything a would-be criminal perceives as aggravating — may lead the would-be criminal to think other information on record would be exculpatory. It could empower would-be criminals to feel entirely justified when before a judge.
1.3.2.1.1.4. Pro: Any single person has more power then before because of this technology, so it stands to reason that the ability to punish abuses of this power should be increased as well.
1.3.2.1.1.5. Pro: Locating criminals will be very easy.
1.3.2.1.1.5.1. Pro: Nobody can hide from this database.
1.3.2.1.1.6. Con: Fanatics, the unintelligent, or the mentally ill sometimes do not understand or care about the punishment.
1.3.2.1.1.6.1. Con: It would be much easier to know who those predisposed to ignoring or not caring about punishment are, and as such preventative action could be taken.
1.3.2.1.1.6.1.1. Con: The nature of mental illness is that it is of the mind, and not necessarily readily evident to external observers. Without access to a person's thoughts it would be difficult for the database to determine who is mentally ill.
1.3.2.1.1.6.2. Con: Fanatics would be known, as they go through a period of radicalization during which they would be noticed and authorities could thus act early and stop them from doing whatever they had planned to do.
1.3.2.1.1.6.3. Con: People unable to understand punishment and the legal system would be known ahead of the age at which they could be doing things requiring punishment and would be prevented from doing so.
1.3.2.1.1.7. Con: In chaotic situations, the criminal culpability of individuals may be hard to determine even if the event is perfectly recorded.
1.3.2.1.1.7.1. Pro: Limited vantage points can often creating confusing perspectives and contextual uncertainty, [such as with police body cameras](http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/04/01/us/police-bodycam-video.html?login=email&_r=1).
1.3.2.1.1.8. Con: The existence of information does not mean it will be noticed or understood by law enforcement. It would still be possible to commit many crimes without the certainty of being caught if no one is searching for that information or if those that come across it do not understand its significance.
1.3.2.1.1.8.1. Con: AI-powered systems will be scouring the complete database continuously and will report suspicious activity to crowd-sourced human "checking" of activities' lawfulness.
1.3.2.1.1.8.1.1. Con: It is pointless to collect all data on everything. It is impossible to analyze it all.
1.3.2.1.1.8.1.2. Pro: Mood analyzing CCTV analysis software, though not yet perfect, does already exist in production environments.
1.3.2.1.1.8.1.3. Con: This presumes that AI will be advanced to a level that allows them to perform complicated checks that identify highly subjective activities as 'suspicious'.
1.3.2.1.1.8.1.3.1. Con: A.I. systems can already form analytical judgments about how people think, communicate and behave. Their accuracy will only improve as is already shown in today's world.
1.3.2.1.1.8.1.3.1.1. Con: Slang and other constantly-changing subversive behavior could outpace the AI.
1.3.2.1.1.8.1.3.2. Pro: Whether Artificial General Intelligence \(aka 'Strong AI'\) is achievable is not clear, and we should not presume it will be achieved before the database is implemented.
1.3.2.1.1.8.1.3.2.1. Pro: The [halting problem creates a theoretical limit](https://medium.com/\@hazemaanomer/why-strong-ai-might-be-impossible-b8e59b73d1fb#.ywdyymz18) that makes recursive self improvement difficult.
1.3.2.1.1.8.1.3.2.1.1. Con: The halting problem is completely irrelevant. P vs NP is a little closer to irrelevant, but still irrelevant. The billions of humans on the planet prove that strong AI is efficiently implementable.
1.3.2.1.1.8.1.3.2.2. Pro: Many of the [required machine learning and AI problems are NP-hard](https://medium.com/\@hazemaanomer/why-strong-ai-might-be-impossible-b8e59b73d1fb#.ywdyymz18) and require significant, orders of magnitude, advanced in algorithm design or processing power to solve.
1.3.2.1.1.8.2. Con: Basically all crimes have victims, either as in individuals, institutions or society as a whole. Victims would certainly report and highlight crimes against them.
1.3.2.1.1.8.2.1. Pro: Somebody breaking a street sign would either be caught during the act or later on when some person annoyed by the street sign having been broken would access the database and search who it was.
1.3.2.1.1.8.3. Pro: This would give child predators greater access to children
1.3.2.1.1.9. Pro: As of 2013, weak or insufficient evidence was the prime reason for why criminal matters were declined \(which is different from an acquittal\) by American federal attorneys \([EOUSA, p. 107](https://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/usao/legacy/2014/09/22/13statrpt.pdf)\). Total surveillance would solve this problem.
1.3.2.1.1.10. Pro: The database dramatically raises the likelihood of criminals being caught and punished and thus reduces the expected value of a criminal act, which will deter criminal behavior if [we assume potential criminals react to incentives](http://www.nber.org/chapters/c3625.pdf).
1.3.2.1.1.10.1. Con: -> See 1.3.2.1.1.8.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2. Con: Certain crimes take place without the perpetrator even considering the prospects of being caught, for example crimes motivated by impulses and passions. These crimes would not be prevented.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.1. Pro: Crimes have been classified as relating either to real needs, lifestyle reasons, esteem reasons and impulses. The latter ones usually happen spontaneously, out of intense emotions and can involve homicide, assault, rape, child abuse and vandalism \([Leo, p. 75](https://books.google.co.kr/books?id=Oz749FcSmW4C&pg=PA75&lpg=PA75&dq=impulse+crimes&source=bl&ots=fz35nlN0LX&sig=hP_j0h_-trRfDQecUuAh_DKQc2g&hl=de&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjyn7fhr9zPAhXFtpQKHX-bAMsQ6AEIMTAC#v=onepage&q=impulse%20crimes&f=false)\).
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.2. Pro: The academic literature on crime has long argued that "real people and their real behavior raise for deterrence theory": they oftentimes commit crimes out of impulses instead out of rational calculation \([Kennedy, p. 18](https://books.google.co.kr/books?id=nmFB9FsNGOkC&pg=PA18&lpg=PA18&dq=impulse+crimes+deterrence&source=bl&ots=bz1dqLKHIT&sig=terZKOFTcBdBjyvClzjdG_6fOF4&hl=de&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjA_suJsdzPAhUHoJQKHc2BBA8Q6AEIGjAA#v=onepage&q=impulse%20crimes%20deterrence&f=false)\).
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3. Con: Omnipresent surveillance would provide many opportunities to intervene and stop crimes from occurring in the first place.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.1. Pro: Human trafficking, slavery and physical abuse of others would drop to almost zero.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.2. Con: The people who would be in charge of surveilling the world would be open to 'interpret' words and actions, reading between imaginary lines and creating false criminals.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.2.1. Pro: -> See 1.3.2.1.1.2.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.2.2. Con: Those false interpretations and ambiguities would inevitably fail to be prosecuted successfully as, ultimately, a criminal conviction depends on a fact scenario that must be proven.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.3. Pro: It might be beneficial for preventing terroristic plans or secret plans in general.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.4. Pro: As humans become more powerful, and as the possibility of a single person being able to destroy anything \(such as by spreading a pandemic\) means that more powerful checks are required to dampen such possibilities.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.5. Pro: -> See 1.3.2.1.1.8.1.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.6. Con: The database has no access to a person's actual thoughts, making their state of mind incredibly difficult to assess.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.7. Con: The database would create an even more [powerful bystander effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bystander_effect) amongst the public as they presume that law enforcement is always aware of and responsible for stopping all crime.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.8. Pro: For example, a warning to not walk around in a particular area, as there are three known rapists strolling through the park.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.9. Con: This would rely on people choosing to constantly survey those around them. Not all people would have the time to devote to this, or the interest in doing so.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.9.1. Con: The knowledge that people can use the database to appraise those around them would change the behavior of possible criminals, even if few people actually use the database in this way.
1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.9.2. Con: -> See 1.3.2.1.1.8.1.
1.3.2.1.2. Con: Traffic is generated by terminals not by humans and there is no correlation. Even assuming you are able to generate a unique ID number for every terminal in the world you have no means of enforcing them to not lie. There is no way to block identity theft without encryption, that is the whole point of encryption — to prove  identity with certainty.
1.3.2.1.3. Con: Encryption appeared as a way of proving identity not privacy. You would receive and encrypted military message from Caesar and you were the only one allowed to read it, thus only one with the correct key to decipher it. There is no other way of preventing identity theft except having some sort of key/information that only you know and no one else. If everyone else knows it you can't prove uniqueness.
1.3.2.1.3.1. Con: Biometric data, such as facial structure, heart pattern, finger prints, and vocal signatures could perhaps provide a form of multi-factor authentication that is not able to be replicated easily, even with pervasive surveillance.
1.3.2.2. Con: Most of the time internet encryption ultimately exists to prevent sensitive data. When that data is public anyway \(such as when anyone can watch anyone else enter their passwords or create the data in the first instance\) there is little need to traffic to be securely encrypted.
1.3.2.2.1. Con: There is no means of knowing who is behind a terminal. It's easy to make a TCP/IP packet clone and do a complete identity theft just as if duplicating a piece of paper. There is no way to map people to online 1 to 1. This [was attempted in South Korea](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/ap/article-2791953/South-Korea-identity-thefts-forces-ID-overhaul.html) and ended up with high identity theft.
1.3.2.3. Con: For someone to use your passwords to steal, privacy is necessary. Because if banks had access to the knowledge of the theft it would prevent it. This form of stealing implies the thief is achieving privacy of information.
1.3.3. Pro: Many businesses perform personal services that are highly sensitive or potentially shameful, such as psychologists, sex workers, or dating services. By making the use of these public it will have a chilling effect on their use and availability.
1.3.3.1. Pro: Lack of privacy in legal prostitution will ruin both the image of client and service provider as each can easily coerce and blackmail the other. This example is meant to show an undesirable service by majority but needed sometimes by a minority. All these services would be put under pressure and protecting the freedoms of minorities will be harder. Do not assume that all people are empathetic.
1.3.3.1.1. Con: Blackmail will become essentially impossible as there is no information whose revelation can be utilized as a threat.
1.3.3.1.1.1. Con: Blackmailing would still be possible: threats of constructing a combination of facts in such a way it would create false impression of the victim would be extremely plausible, because given the nature of the Database, everyone would believe them.
1.3.3.1.1.2. Pro: Coercing or blackmailing would be known therefore the person who tried to do so would then find themselves in more trouble.
1.3.4. Pro: Testing \(in school/college, and for job qualification\) would no longer be possible if anyone could access the test and answers in advance.
1.3.4.1. Con: Everyone can access the correct answers with research in advance already. Schools and employers should opt for practical applications of these ‘tests’ rather than relying mostly on theory. You can cheat exams but not reality.
1.3.5. Pro: Artists and people who test and explore our cultures need privacy to hone their meaning before putting their ideas 'out there'.
1.3.5.1. Pro: Privacy allows for experimentation, which leads to original thoughts and ideas.
1.3.6. Pro: Companies researching new technologies would be at risk of them being stolen by competitors before they reach a stage at which they could successfully be patented.
1.3.6.1. Con: We should not worry about ideas not being patented as patents rarely [promote innovation](http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/aea/jep/2013/00000027/00000001/art00001).
1.3.6.1.1. Pro: Patents won't be as necessary because the database records the entire process of invention.
1.3.6.1.1.1. Pro: Because everything is recorded into the database, patents could be automatically issued without the inventor needing to apply for one.
1.3.6.1.2. Con: A person's drive and commitment to an idea or invention is rooted in the sense of ownership. If there is no "inventor", the spirit to see something through will be absent, which will lead to stalled work and inefficiencies.
1.3.6.2. Con: There are two types of patent systems: [first-to-invent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_to_file_and_first_to_invent) \(FTI\) and first-to-file \(FTF\). Countries have switched away from FTI because of the difficulty in proving exactly when something was invented, a limitation which the database would totally erase. An FTI patent system would protect inventors effectively.
1.3.6.2.1. Pro: An FTI system would be as simple as playing the database's tape back which would erase all conflicts over who invented what first.
1.3.6.3. Pro: Small companies would be particularly vulnerable to this, as large companies would be able to devote greater resources to finishing their ideas before they would be able to.
1.3.6.3.1. Con: Large companies would potentially face big R&D risks, given the huge amounts they often invest into developing new ideas.
1.3.6.3.2. Pro: In this sense, the database would, in R&D terms, likely carry over the status quo of today where big companies have the resources, the money and the lawyers to crush smaller competitors.
1.3.6.4. Con: This would force companies to collaborate and work together as they could not hold industrial secrets; in effect creating an open source model of technological development.
1.3.6.4.1. Con: Constant surveillance of all observable actions could also result in companies finding creative \(non-observable\) ways of holding industrial secrets.
1.3.6.4.2. Pro: Knowing what people are working on would inspire others to join their cause. Knowing which people aren't working or aren't passionate about their work would help organizations recruit them.
1.3.6.4.3. Con: Better and more innovative ideas arise from competition in the marketplace, not risk-less collaboration. This will kill the entrepreneurial drive.
1.3.6.4.3.1. Con: Risk and competition will still occur in all aspects except research and development; an area that accounts for only [1-5% of corporate spending regardless](http://www.strategyand.pwc.com/global/home/what-we-think/innovation1000/rd-intensity-vs-spend-2014).
1.3.6.4.4. Pro: This will provide a more honest working environment at all levels, and more cooperative concepts can grow into their full potential.
1.3.6.4.5. Con: While companies could see their competitors' secrets, laws could still require that they not use those secrets in their own products or services. \(If companies violate these laws, the proof would be in the universal database.\)
1.3.6.4.6. Pro: Standardization at last: everyone will be able to find the current best approach to accomplish any task & correct their own inefficiency.
1.3.6.4.7. Pro: Open source production has an important part to play. It would empower people to have a voice and opinion. Any such action leaves the person with the opinion open to abuse, but we need to trust those individuals and regulation by the community.
1.3.6.5. Pro: This would enable people to create small "patent-troll" style companies that only exist to steal valuable ideas from other companies.
1.3.6.5.1. Pro: These companies may lead to a period of disruption but there will be a return to stability all the more quickly.
1.3.6.5.2. Con: It wouldn't make sense to make specific 'patent troll' like companies because everyone can potentially steal everyone else's ideas.
1.3.6.5.3. Con: Because the database forces all companies to be fully transparent, the value of proprietary intellectual property will plummet because everyone will have access to it. Given this, the value of patents and licenses \(and thus patent trolls\) will be next to nothing.
1.3.7. Pro: The medical sector requires privacy.
1.3.7.1. Pro: Psychiatric care is a minefield, actively being figured out. The confidentiality of somebody suffering from mental illness is necessary to help them suss it out without exterior judgment.
1.3.7.2. Con: Patient-doctor confidentiality is not necessary for treating the patient, thus the ability to treat a patient would not be diminished.
1.3.7.2.1. Con: Patients would be less likely to report issues, especially scandalizing ones relative to their personal lives.
1.3.7.3. Pro: People may not seek medical attention since any diagnosis would be public.
1.3.7.3.1. Con: If you were aware of some medical issue, chances are very high that somebody else watching your stream would have noticed too.
1.3.7.3.1.1. Con: There are some conditions that can only be confirmed by medical testing. A person may, for example, avoid getting tested for STDs to avoid the embarrassment of a positive test result.
1.3.7.3.1.1.1. Con: This would reduce the risk of contagion as individuals could check the record of the person they are about to have sex with and it would thus potentially reduce the incidence of STDs
1.3.7.3.1.1.1.1. Con: Checking a database would spoil the mood.
1.3.7.3.1.1.1.1.1. Con: Presumably if sex was a real possibility, the people involved would have consulted the database ahead of time.
1.3.7.3.2. Con: When everyone's medical problems are public knowledge any stigma associated with the conditions will erode over time.
1.3.7.4. Pro: The rule of professional discretion among physicians is an effective way to protect vulnerable individuals from being exposed publicly.
1.3.7.5. Con: It often prevents doctors reporting suspected abuse, or telling intimate partners about STDs.
1.3.7.5.1. Pro: The database would enable everyone to know about someone's STDs, before sexually engaging with them.
1.3.7.6. Con: In a world with no privacy, any doctor or bot that wanted to could diagnose you as needing treatment without asking first. Privacy extends to things like your heart rate and sleeping patterns.
1.3.7.6.1. Con: Such diagnosis would result in enforcement of arbitrary decided "healthy lifestyle", thus removing choice of whether and how much eat, exercise, sleep etc.
1.3.7.6.1.1. Con: Objectively-healthy lifestyle "ranges" could be given while still leaving room for the individual's lifestyle preferences.
1.3.7.6.1.2. Con: Healthy lifestyle suggestions can be tailored to the individual, based on their history, health, preferences, and other collected data.
1.3.7.6.1.3. Con: A perfectly-informed \(or very-well-informed\) enforcement of a healthy lifestyle would result in a more healthy life for the individual.
1.3.7.6.2. Pro: Proactive medical treatment is better than reactive medical treatment.
1.3.8. Pro: For example, free journalism and free information require privacy to protect sources from power.
1.3.8.1. Con: Journalism requires protection from sources of power because those in power can, in private moments, utilize their power to harm those who would expose them to the public; without privacy, they cannot initiate harm against others without the public being aware of it.
1.3.8.2. Con: In Bentham and Foucault's model of the panopticon, it cannot be proved the watchman's omniscience and omnipotence is beneficial for his subjects. Indeed, they actively suffer for his power to discipline and punish from the centre, for their lack of privacy.
1.3.8.3. Con: Journalism itself exists to spread information and expose lies; if everyone has no privacy then there is little need for confidential sources.
1.3.9. Pro: The business of corporate espionage would become superfluous.
1.3.9.1. Con: Though actual theft of trade secrets would be unnecessary, the process of analyzing and distributing collected information to those that can make use of it is a huge challenge that would remain after the database was created.
1.3.9.2. Con: A world without corporate espionage is probably for the better.
1.3.10. Pro: Corporate-owned, profit-driven depositories of our memories like Facebook would become unnecessary.
1.3.10.1. Con: People would still use Facebook, Snapchat, and similar programs to communicate with their friends.
1.3.10.2. Con: People would still use Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter and the likes to communicate with the general public.
1.3.10.3. Pro: Nobody would waste time carefully curating and sharing one's "timeline" when everybody could just watch the real deal.
1.3.10.3.1. Con: Conversely people may start to think of their actual life as their 'timeline' and spend too much time deciding how to curate it rather than actually living.
1.3.10.4. Con: These services becoming redundant is not necessarily a good thing.
1.3.10.4.1. Pro: Using them gives many people enjoyment.
1.3.10.5. Con: If social media sites' revenue streams were lost, there would be no incentive for employees to maintain the networks and they would fall into disrepair and obsolescence.
1.3.11. Con: Many types of work that utilize privacy could probably adjust to a world without privacy.
1.3.12. Con: Even if this is true, presumably new jobs would be created to cater to the new paradigm.
1.3.12.1. Con: It's not a matter of number of jobs, it's a matter that these things are essential to life.
1.4. Pro: The world will become more tolerant and empathic.
1.4.1. Con: Every major positive social change in \(relative\) recent history, from civil rights for people of color, acceptance of homosexuality and even votes for women, started as an illegal and punishable offence. Privacy and secrecy allowed people to gather, organize, influence, and eventually change society for the better. With no privacy, there would be no significant social changes going forward, and status-quo would be far easier to enforce.
1.4.1.1. Con: But this is not necessarily the case any more, as activists use social media more than any other tool to affect social change and the previous use of secrecy was also down to the secrecy employed by those protecting the status quo.
1.4.2. Con: The world will not become more empathic or tolerant. Human beings are incredibly competitive, incredibly violent, and incredibly self interested. Ending privacy will not change that.
1.4.3. Pro: People who do deeds of charity and arbitration will find merit among the wise.
1.4.4. Pro: The internet's removal of communication barriers did much to expand global communication and allow people to share diverse interests. The database advances this even further.
1.4.4.1. Con: Social Media has allowed us to become extremely confrontational \(rude\) without sufficiently policed consequences.  We are forgetting how to socialize.
1.4.5. Pro: The database makes persons of different races, religions, and sexualities more visible than ever before [which helps to build empathy](http://phys.org/news/2013-04-3qs-gay-marriage-movement-evolved.html). This in turns creates more tolerance of difference.
1.4.5.1. Con: Those who would attack someone for their race, religion or sexuality will now have even more information at their disposal to carry out their acts of hatred.
1.4.6. Con: There is no guarantee that more knowledge about the world will lead to global tolerance and empathy. The database may fuel popular anger if it, for example, reveals popular attitudes in one country that are offensive to another.
1.4.6.1. Pro: Insider knowledge of the Troika negotiations and popular German attitudes toward Greece during its debt crisis would be more likely to inflame Greek passions against European technocrats than to soothe.
1.4.6.1.1. Con: Greeks knew what popular attitudes in Germany were like toward them during negotiations anyway.
1.4.6.2. Con: This may be true for extreme examples, but in the long term having [more experience with other cultures and races](https://psychologybenefits.org/2014/11/03/crossing-boundaries-how-intergroup-contact-can-reduce-racial-anxiety-and-improve-race-relations/) promotes tolerance and diversity.
1.4.6.3. Con: It's very difficult to disguise what popular attitudes one culture holds toward another; this seems like information that would be available regardless of whether or not privacy is abolished.
1.4.6.3.1. Con: That may be true in the abstract but it discounts the value of directly observing those differences in person rather than through media or reference materials. For example, people find travelling to be a much more authentic and impactful way to understand different cultures.
1.4.6.4. Pro: Opinions cause both positive and negative reactions that create division rather than  cohesive social policy. Multi-cultural groups are a result of changing trends people polarize over. Best to keep to oneself when controversial and live by traditional morals and values.
1.4.7. Con: Metropolitan culture - contrasted to village culture - came about due to the possibility of anonymity and "fresh starts" in a big cities. When the database removes these possibilities it creates a global village culture.
1.4.7.1. Pro: Village society is characterized by the fact that everyone knows everyone; and all actions you take in view of others eventually become common knowledge.
1.4.7.2. Con: It is unclear why metropolitan culture is inherently superior to village culture.
1.4.7.3. Con: Many people prefer the intimacy and sense of security that is created within village culture. When people know everyone else, they are assured of their own security and place within society.
1.4.7.4. Con: Metropolitan culture, to many, is hostile and uninviting.
1.4.7.4.1. Pro: If anything the kinds of communities on the internet that are vaunted \(based on identity, such as LGBT, etc.\) are more similar to village culture in that they involve a relatively small number of people coming together in a community with something in common.
1.4.7.4.1.1. Con: Metropolitan conditions — whether they be in the city or on the internet — are what enable smaller subcultures to flourish without persecution. It is easier to form small communities in a diverse environment than in a smaller one because there is less risk of being singled out and more members to draw from.
1.4.7.5. Con: Village culture is also contingent on there being a relatively small number of people to facilitate a situation where 'everyone knows everyone'. A database of everyone in the world would therefore not be similar.
1.4.7.6. Pro: Metropolitan culture enables people to reinvent themselves and explore new identities.
1.4.8. Pro: Without privacy we see that we all do strange, silly, and "immoral" things when we're by ourselves. This builds empathy because we understand other people as subjective individuals by observing and understanding their behaviour over time.
1.4.8.1. Con: People will probably stop doing those strange, silly, and "immoral" things when they know that all their actions are recorded and publicly available.
1.4.8.1.1. Con: People wouldn't stop because this would mean not satisfying their desires at all. Instead it is much more likely that people would change and these behaviours would be accepted as normal.
1.4.8.1.1.1. Con: Many people, even in a world of privacy, do not share their sexual desires with even their sexual partners.
1.4.8.1.1.1.1. Con: For these people, total privacy would not change anything — they can still choose to not to communicate their desires as they would have otherwise.
1.4.8.1.1.1.2. Con: The sense of shame that prevents people from disclosing their deepest sexual desires will likely lessen when the database exposes \(and thus normalises\) everyone's 'deviant' desires.
1.4.8.1.1.1.2.1. Pro: There are always some people do not care about public shame and are willing to publicly display their desires to everyone.
1.4.8.1.1.2. Pro: -> See 1.4.8.1.1.1.2.1.
1.4.8.1.1.3. Pro: Many people share their desires already with their friends and partners, which means the people that they care about most already know.
1.4.8.1.2. Con: Whenever basic needs and emotions are repressed, especially for fear of being watched or found out, they will emerge, but in pathological and unhealthy ways.
1.4.9. Pro: Issues such as economic inequality would become way more apparent as the lifestyles of the rich as well as the poor would be visible to the public. The result would be increased calls for fairness.
1.4.9.1. Con: The world is not fair. It's not meant to be fair, ending privacy will not change that. Increased calls for fairness will lead to even more secretive, and counter productive behaviors on the part of the wealthy
1.4.9.1.1. Con: Those behaviours probably can't be that secretive when their every action is recorded. Thus there is likely to be at least some moderating effects on the behaviour of the wealthy.
1.4.9.2. Con: The stark contrast between the lives of the rich and the poor is already very evident and easily accessible to anybody who looks. The likelihood is that people would continue to ignore it as they do now.
1.4.10. Con: Talking about emotional issues with close friends and family or medical professionals would mean that everyone in the world would be able to hear. This would lead to stifled emotional development and a lack of intimacy with others.
1.4.10.1. Con: Social norms against snooping into other peoples' lives may safeguard private moments.
1.4.10.1.1. Con: Curiousity may well become the norm, as the entire point of this thought experiment is that nothing is private.
1.4.10.1.2. Pro: If norms against snooping take hold, anyone who violates them by accessing the database for taboo purposes would have to do it with the knowledge that their actions are publicly visible.
1.4.10.2. Con: Social stigma associated with mental illness and emotional struggles will reduce as people become more aware of just how common these issues are. This will reduce this issue, and also be a good in and of itself.
1.4.11. Pro: Body image-caused personality disorders and unhappiness will decrease.
1.4.11.1. Pro: People have unrealistic perceptions of beauty as they compare themselves to their perception of their peers' beauty and to the perceived average and most beautiful individuals. Given all of these "perceptions" would be lowered, most people would consider themselves as being more beautiful.
1.4.11.1.1. Pro: The database will lower the perception of how beautiful "the maximum beautiful" people are, given that people would see what celebrities and models would look like without the help of professional makeup artists and/or image enhancement.
1.4.11.1.2. Pro: The database will lower the perception of how beautiful the average person is.
1.4.11.1.2.1. Pro: All else being equal, decreasing the perception of maximum beauty lowers the perception of average beauty.
1.4.11.1.2.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.11.1.1.
1.4.11.1.2.2. Pro: Most people have not seen a statistically relevant amount of naked average-looking people, the database would change that and would thus be a good counterweight to the normality portrayed by ads and media.
1.4.11.1.2.2.1. Pro: Everybody will know what everybody looks like naked.
1.4.11.1.2.2.1.1. Con: This could make especially insecure people who would want to control how and when potential partners see them naked even more self-conscious and prevent them from ever making moves on people they like.
1.4.11.1.3. Pro: On average, people that would be comparing themselves to their peers, would see that they look about average, not significantly worse or better, when using the database.
1.4.11.1.4. Con: Eating disorders are caused by warped or dysmorphic perceptions of one's body. This is not caused by a lack of exposure to a variety different body types because the person lacks the ability to objectively relative to other bodies in general.
1.4.11.2. Con: It is unclear how this mechanism is any more effective than simple existence in the real world, where people are exposed to a wide range of bodies.
1.4.11.3. Con: Eating disorders are rarely caused exclusively by a lack of exposure to realistic bodies.[nedc.com.au](http://www.nedc.com.au/risk-factors)
1.4.11.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.11.1.4.
1.4.11.4. Pro: If there is privacy for people's bodies, then the band of 'normal' will widen considerably and people will see models as exceptions rather than targets to try and achieve. This should help increase everyone's sense of well-being.
1.4.11.4.1. Pro: The absence of physical privacy will normalize nudity and sex, erasing societal hyper-sexualization and leading to healthy views of self and sex.
1.4.12. Con: It could easily lead to mob rule where the less popular viewpoint, especially if the more popular one is in a position of power, could be discriminated against or even persecuted.
1.5. Con: The right to privacy is a [natural right](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_and_legal_rights): inherent and invaluable to all humans.
1.5.1. Con: Privacy, without any form of accountability, will likely lead to a more isolated, anarchical, society.
1.5.2. Pro: Privacy is a basic human right because without privacy then there is no freedom. While there may be legitimate objections they still don't justify the abolishment of privacy altogether — it would be impossible for people to have time alone and it would be suffocatingly restrictive to be surveyed constantly.
1.5.3. Con: An individual's right to privacy is only important relative to their peers. Privacy violations are harmful because only one person takes on the harms of that violation while everyone else enjoys the benefits. If there is absolutely no right to privacy then there are no relative harms — everyone is on the same footing.
1.5.3.1. Con: Different people do different things. Sometimes society is unjustly judgmental on one thing, such as being gay, or having a disability, while not being judgmental on an item of far greater concern.
1.5.3.2. Con: Privacy is not imporant only relative to peers, it is a right to decide which aspects of person's life is that persong willing to share with others. Even if everyone was on equal footing, people would still be unhappy by having to share what they do not want to.
1.5.4. Pro: Our conception of human rights as absolute and inherent serves as a strong check against oppression by providing a class of benefits that cannot be violated on moral grounds even if governments can change their legal grounds.
1.5.5. Pro: Human rights are not instrumental to any political purpose; they are a direct expression of what makes humans sentient and thus able to be political actors at all. As thinking beings with bodily autonomy, we thus have the right to exercise private thought and free movement. If those acts are not seen as rights, then we have no prima facie justification to exist as sentient actors in the world.
1.5.5.1. Pro: Without a fundament justification for humans to exist as free actors, there is no basis for any form of morality because there must be a underpinning framework that sees all people as sentient actors and thus worthy of moral consideration.
1.5.5.2. Con: Though this is true of some rights \(e.g. bodily autonomy and free movement\), privacy is an instrumental right designed to uphold more fundamental freedoms.
1.5.5.2.1. Pro: This is evident in the way it is enforced.
1.5.5.2.1.1. Pro: Privacy is frequently overridden where it is seen to be impinging on the higher order right of another.
1.5.5.2.1.1.1. Pro: For example, laws which allow for confidentiality by a doctor/lawyer/therapist/priest to be broken where there is a threat of violence.
1.5.5.3. Con: The database does not necessarily compromise free thought or free movement; it just reveals our actions.
1.5.5.3.1. Pro: It isn't possible to abolish privacy entirely, as there would always be a way to conceal thoughts and actions to some degree.
1.5.6. Pro: The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a milestone document in the history of human rights, states "[No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy](http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/)". The annihilation of privacy would just waste the progress made in terms of basic human rights.
1.5.6.1. Con: Article 12 of the UDHR only bans the "arbitrary" and unlawful interference with individuals' privacy. This does not preclude interference with privacy as long as it applies to everyone, is lawful and serves a larger interest, as is the case here.
1.5.7. Con: Human rights are not naturally given but based on a social consensus and therefore malleable. If this step is seen as beneficial, there is no reason why the right to privacy could and should not be done away with.
1.5.7.1. Con: The claim that rights are given by authority and hence could be revoked again is only one of possible approaches to human rights. The other approach, represented e.g. by the US. Constitution, holds that certain human rights are irrevocable. This is a classical example of the [conflict between the Collectivist and Individualist ethics](https://www.scribd.com/document/28063010/Edward-Griffin-The-Chasm-Collectivism-vs-Individualism).
1.5.7.2. Con: If human rights were to be subjected to cancellation by majority or ruler, they would offer no protection from oppression whatsoever over existing laws and hence, would be toothless and irrelevant.
1.5.7.3. Pro: Rights are made up, and serve only to regulate behavior. Establishing rights creates the idea that, for lack of a better phrase, there is something you can do, no matter what. It's your right. However, it begets the antithesis that your rights can be taken away, infringed upon. The right to the safety of privacy creates the calamity of having your privacy violated. Enforcing rules of behavior such as the right to privacy is more ineffectual and chaotic than naturally-arising societal mores.
1.5.7.4. Pro: The right to privacy \(like all rights\) is culturally relative.
1.5.7.4.1. Con: Both privacy and freedom of speech are logically necessary ingredients for any well-functioning democracy because it allows for the free expression of dissidence and the protection of the dissidents. If privacy were abolished a well-constructed opposition for the ruling party would not be possible.
1.5.7.4.2. Pro: The right to privacy is historically not recognized. This discussion contributes toward privacy being [an anomoly.](https://techcrunch.com/2013/11/20/googles-cerf-says-privacy-may-be-an-anomaly-historically-hes-right/) Not a long-standing right.
1.5.7.4.2.1. Con: Depending on where you draw the line in history, using history as a precedent for the rights that are protected or recognised could remove them all. The question isn't of the historical context, but the justification for the right.
1.5.7.4.3. Pro: Many people do not agree with the weight that Western Liberal Democracies have traditionally placed on rights like freedom of speech and privacy.
1.5.7.4.3.1. Con: Many people are tyrants, or seek to oppress others.
1.5.7.4.3.2. Pro: This is because these rights frequently impede on other, more ephemeral rights, like a sense of safety or freedom from offence.
1.5.7.4.3.2.1. Con: There is no such thing as a 'freedom from offense' because it would not be maintainable in a pluralist society, or in any society. Feeling offended is not an absolute, objective norm, it is a relative norm than can not be dismissed nor proven in a court of law.
1.5.7.4.3.3. Con: These "many people" are often from lesser developed regions in terms of national governance, where the liberal democracy is a relatively new thing, where traditionalist tribal and religious views still reign supreme and where the emancipation of the individual has started relatively recently.
1.5.7.4.4. Pro: Western liberal democracies have traditionally emphasised rights that empower individuals at the expense of more collective rights.
1.5.7.4.4.1. Pro: Countries that are often considered successes in liberal socialism, for example the Scandinavian nations, often place less emphasis on rights that are individually-focused such as privacy.
1.5.7.4.4.1.1. Pro: Sweden uses mass surveillance of communications as a way of ensuring national security.
1.5.7.4.5. Con: Our thoughts are both inaccessible to others and what defines us as individuals. Extending privacy from our internal thoughts to our external actions is thus a natural  extrapolation of what drives consciousness \(and thus humanity\) in general.
1.5.7.4.5.1. Con: At the point thoughts manifest into actions, there is a potential harm or impact on the rest of society, and thus an active interest from their perspective. The thought/action distinction is a logical line to draw when considering privacy.
1.5.8. Pro: Privacy is greatly important as a human right, because it also goes with the rights to association, manifestation, free expression and opinion.
1.5.8.1. Con: The database may compromise privacy but it does not follow that it would compromise those other rights in modern democratic societies.
1.5.9. Con: Rights can conflict with each other, and less of one right can result in more of another right. The annihilation of privacy would, for example, strengthen the right to a "fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal" which the Universal Declaration of Human Rights [grants](http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/).
1.5.9.1. Con: Because of the large amount of information, the information could be cherry picked to lead juries to false conclusions.
1.5.9.1.1. Con: -> See 1.3.1.
1.5.10. Con: Privacy is not an absolute right, rather it is frequently traded off where there is a collective interest in doing so.
1.5.10.1. Pro: For example, national security laws which allow for the collection and retention of metadata.
1.5.10.1.1. Con: There is very strong opposition to such laws by civil rights advocates and the general public.
1.5.10.2. Pro: Governments collect data via censuses in order to best allocate resources.
1.5.10.2.1. Con: Censuses specifically contain broad statistics, and still are required to protect this information from being abused by law enforcement.
1.5.10.3. Pro: People willingly provide personal information to entities such as Facebook or Gmail in return for free services.
1.5.10.3.1. Con: Giving up a small segment of information under specific terms is not the same as giving up all the details of your private life.
1.5.10.3.2. Con: That is incomparable, because giving up personal data to Facebook or Gmail is not mandatory and could be avoided. 
If you use, for example, Diaspora, Protonmail and Duckduckgo, neither Facebook nor Google should be able to reach violate your privacy.
1.5.10.4. Con: Rights can be both absolute and able to be traded off — tradeoffs are a natural consequence of competing rights. It is unclear why a collective right is any more or less absolute than an individual one.
1.5.10.4.1. Pro: In existing circumstances, privacy is traded off either in a voluntary manner by individuals, or by governments where there are strict causes to believe it will prevent harm to other rights \(such as the right to property or safety\).
1.5.10.4.2. Con: Even if a collective right is not necessarily more valuable than an individual right, it is not necessarily less valuable either. If rights exist on a spectrum, a position which wholly prioritizes the collective over the individual is no less legitimate than one which balances those interests more evenly.
1.5.10.5. Con: Many people who trade their privacy do not understand the choice they make, as the negative impact is indirect and often invisible.
1.5.11. Con: The right to privacy is inequitably applied under status quo.
1.5.11.1. Pro: Marginalised groups frequently have their privacy impinged on by the State.
1.5.11.1.1. Pro: For example, people receiving welfare payments are often subject to more stringent violations of their privacy than the rest of the electorate.
1.5.11.1.2. Pro: Racist policing means that racial minorities often experience more defacto surveillance from law enforcement than their white peers.
1.5.11.1.2.1. Pro: Having even more surveillance data will likely enable law enforcement to pursue even more racially-motivated prosecutions.
1.5.11.1.3. Con: Surveillance often acts to disincentivise, or at least highlight, the oppression of minorities by the State. For example, the proliferation of phones able to record video has lead to more evidence of — and outrage over — injust police shootings \(and led to a call for police to wear body cameras\).
1.5.11.2. Con: Presumably this surveillance data will still be inequitably used under the proposal, only on a larger scale. This means that minorities are still victimised to a greater extent.
1.5.11.2.1. Con: If this occurs, there will be a higher level of transparency than under the current system, where such surveillance is often left to the discretion of individuals.
1.5.11.2.2. Pro: The methods used to sort and filter the database will likely replicate the same sorts of problematic profiling behaviour  used by governments and law enforcement under status quo.
1.5.12. Pro: Privacy is essential for freedom to flourish.
1.5.12.1. Pro: -> See 1.5.7.4.1.
1.5.12.2. Con: There is no true liberty so long as a privileged class is allowed to live a lie that they enforce on those below them. The only true freedom comes from the end of all secrets.
1.5.12.2.1. Con: The idea that the rich are rich and the poor are poor because they are privileged, is nonsense. Most of them were not always rich. If they were not free to become rich, how did they do it? A free world is not an equal one, it's not meant to be. Each person is is rewarded by merit and some do better than others. An end to secrets would enslave us in rigid behaviors and speech codes, the very antithesis of freedom.
1.5.12.3. Pro: In the UK there is no tort for breach of privacy. In public we can have no expectation of privacy, privacy rights extend to the boundaries of our homes and no further and this is right and proper.
1.5.12.4. Pro: Information can easily be abused if anyone can access it. This threatens peoples' liberty.
1.6. Con: This will enable 'cyber stalking' and other targeted forms of harassment.
1.6.1. Pro: Nature has proven that the exclusion of harmful influence from outside threats is necessary for survival: it is the basis of the cell from which all advanced life develops. Exposing all individuals to harassment from all others is an abject violation of this natural model, and particularly dangerous given it is estimated that around 5% of the population have psychotic or narcissistic tendencies.
1.6.2. Pro: Twitter has a similar model, where any user can 'observe' any other user. This has lead to a [notorious problem](http://www.wsj.com/articles/why-twitter-cant-shake-its-harassment-problem-1472045224) where huge groups of people will harasses individuals because of political disagreements or spite.
1.6.2.1. Pro: This level of abuse will only continue while Twitter stays impartial to its content, and the same risks will apply to the Database.
1.6.2.2. Pro: The database must have a clear policy on how to handle abuse/stalking/etc, since beyond the state of current social media where the user chooses the degree of shared information, people's identities will be much more exposed to possible threats.
1.6.3. Pro: If harassers have full access to their victim's life their taunts can become much more personal and much more effective.
1.6.3.1. Con: Given that this kind of activity is often illegal \(eg. stalking\) this would act as a disincentive to abusive ex-partners, since the relevant authorities would be able to observe their activity.
1.6.3.1.1. Pro: Not only that, but it would increase societal shame because such actions are often done in secret, or where people cannot see the immediate effects.
1.6.3.2. Con: Taunting when you're anonymous is easy. Doing so when all the rest of us including your grandmother can see you doing it is a whole other story. This would practically extinguish bullying and most forms of impolite behavior. Every abusive behavior becomes a permanent scar on your life record.
1.6.4. Pro: Many people, [such as Anita Sarkeesian](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2015/aug/29/anita-sarkeesian-gamergate-interview-jessica-valenti), have had their public presence become a flashpoint for hostile behaviour and ideological debate. This is because they became icons of a movement without ever choosing to take on this public role and without any real ability to retreat from the role. When there is no public/private distinction all these harms become utterly inescapable
1.6.4.1. Con: Much of the most extreme abuse directed at Sarkeesian and other figures was anonymous, since anonymity tends to protect people from being shamed for expressing extreme sentiments. This kind of abuse is less likely when their actions are both publicly viewable and available to authorities.
1.6.5. Con: If we can create a universal database we can presumably also create better tools for dealing with cyber stalking and harassment, such as intelligent 'block'/'mute' functions for people or automated means to identify abusive content.
1.6.5.1. Con: Under the status quo many existing technology companies could make better tools for dealing with harrassment but choose not to for structural reasons \(cost vs reward; fears of alienating other uses\).
1.6.6. Pro: Being able to observe any other person's entire life through the database would lead to extreme forms of [celebrity worship syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Celebrity_worship_syndrome) where people feel like they are entitled to being involved in someone else's life.
1.6.6.1. Con: Celebrity worship may be less damaging to the well-being of celebrities because there would be no need for the paparazzi to hound them in order to document their lives.
1.6.6.1.1. Con: There would still be a need for higher quality photos that what is available from the database's surveillance capture.
1.6.6.1.2. Con: It would be a thousand times worse since the public would become the paparazzi and have access to the innermost detail of anyone's life, whether good or bad.
1.6.7. Con: As the absence of privacy would bring about the end of anonymity, many potential stalkers and harassers would be discouraged from these activities.
1.6.7.1. Pro: In a world without privacy, you know who your stalker is, and you can let everyone know who your stalker is.
1.6.7.2. Con: Stalkers and harasses often rely on pseudo-anonymity by attacking together. [When grouped together there are lower thresholds for engaging in bad behaviour](http://snap.stanford.edu/class/cs224w-readings/granovetter78threshold.pdf) \(and fewer consequences\).
1.6.7.2.1. Pro: This would certainly encourage the already dangerous mob mentality that is present in many hate groups.
1.6.7.3. Con: Stalking and harassment is extremely common on Facebook where users are not anonymous. [Being able to punish a harasser is an exception, not the rule, and does little to deter future harassment](http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-12-03/online-abuse-of-clemintine-ford-proves-bullying-can-cost-job/6997526).
1.6.7.4. Con: Harassers may be in other countries where there may not be a legal way to punish or deter them, despite the evidence the database provides.
1.6.7.5. Pro: Without anonymity stalkers/abusers can be caught quickly and easily by authorities.
1.6.7.5.1. Con: Authorities might not care about the activity, or worse, authorities could be the ones conducting it.
1.6.7.6. Con: Some stalkers might be violent and not care about getting caught. There is no minority report in real life, and the only thing that really protects these victims is privacy.
1.6.8. Pro: Many people go to great lengths to conceal their activity from particular individuals \(e.g. abusive ex-partners\). This observation would hugely compromise their safety.
1.6.8.1. Pro: Many of these abusers are irrational actors, and unlikely to be deterred by the fact that their identity will be similarly publicly available.
1.6.8.2. Con: -> See 1.6.3.1.
1.6.9. Pro: Interpersonal relationships would become the target of voyeurs, resulting in emotional distress.
1.6.10. Con: We would be able to create "always on" agents that are watching to see who is looking at us. At some point, looking "without cause" would be considered a shameful behavior.
1.6.10.1. Con: There is also the possibility that dabbling in other people's personal information could become a past time or hobby that is encouraged by society. People might then see themselves as vigilantes or minutemen trying to 'hunt' out criminals.
1.7. Con: This will lead to widespread discrimination against certain groups.
1.7.1. Pro: Health insurance rates and credit card rates will increase, targeting the most vulnerable in society.
1.7.1.1. Con: Health insurance or credit card regulations often prevent discrimination based on personal data, such as pre-existing illnesses.
1.7.1.2. Con: If anything health insurance and credit card costs would go down because they would not have more accurate ways of assessing and pricing risk.
1.7.2. Con: Discrimination will essentially be discouraged because the discriminator will fear publicization of their atrocities.
1.7.3. Pro: This would ruin any form of diversity resulting in the mistreatment of people with different cultures. The system will go from liberal to far left in an instant. In the long run it won't allow people with different values to coexist. This opposes the initial idea of "liberal democracy". Liberal democracy is based on the idea of classical liberalism and advocates for civil liberties — such as privacy — under the rule of law.
1.7.3.1. Pro: Classic liberalism focuses on the rights of individual. In Democracy there are no "group rights" because you reach the point where "the group is more important than the individual" and the individual lacks value like in Nazi Germany or Eastern Socialist Block during cold war. Always remember you have to focus on individual rights and not group rights. These individual rights are called civil liberties and they do include right to privacy.
1.7.3.2. Pro: Under liberal democratic systems, privacy creates a space separate from political life, and allows personal autonomy, while ensuring democratic freedoms of association and expression. Without it people will be judgemental with who you associate and not focus on your actual words. This will reduce a lot of debates even between normal people to ad hominem remarks.
1.7.3.3. Pro: There is a difference between abolishing the right and disclosing only to a certain party. The basic idea is that you might willingly and only partially give away your right only to a certain entity for the sake of other benefits \(EG: protection of your life by allowing security company to know your location 24/7\). Also you can loose your rights when you try to infringe someone else rights. These are core concepts of liberal democracy. My argument is you can't maintain "liberal democracy"
1.7.3.4. Pro: Some minorities do stuff in different way and if majority thinks that is "immoral" it will try to enforce their way of living onto the minority. One example of such act it the law "Humane slaughter act" which obviously created this problem. Also people who could not afford the "humane" ways in poor countries were forced outside the market through regulations affecting the free market for those country in a great manner. This database will allow people to police personal beliefs.
1.7.3.5. Pro: Sometimes employers can't give equal wage to everyone with same job title because not everyone has equal skill levels this is why wages are kept secret. Usually an employer tries to give the smallest wage that will motivate that person to not work somewhere else. Having all wages public would force employers to put exactly the same wage for everyone to not create unrest. This is enforced equality from socialism/communism
1.7.3.6. Con: This claim assumes that lack of privacy will mean shaming those who are different. This is not necessarily the case and is a separate issue. If an individual can only express their true values in private for fear of shame, then the society isn't a "liberal democracy" to begin with. Thus, in a truly multicultural society where everyone is accepted, the lack of privacy would not lead to lack of diversity \(but admittedly we are not there yet\).
1.7.4. Pro: Since the world doesn't have complete equality economically or technologically some countries would be better at surveillance than others giving them privilege over the rest.
1.7.5. Con: Being in favor of privacy implies information should be available only to certain groups or sorts of people. Therefore, abandoning privacy is a necessary path to equality.
1.7.5.1. Con: The implication is correct however if the set size of the group is one, then privacy has been achieved rendering any path to equality independent of privacy.
1.7.6. Con: Privacy is something that cannot be really achieved, this is especially true the more technology advances and pervades our lives. There are subjects that continually collect data about us, and they cannot be stopped or controlled. The more laws enforcing privacy we do the more we create a discrimination between those that can see other people privacy and those who cannot. Abolishing privacy would restore an equality on this.
1.7.7. Pro: Many people in positions of power \(e.g. employers, legislators\) hold conscious or subconscious biases against particular classes of people. Under status quo, individuals can choose to conceal certain characteristics they possess as a self-preservation tactic.
1.7.7.1. Con: People's prejudices would decrease, given that people would see that many of their friends belong to fringe groups.
1.7.7.1.1. Pro: Senator McCain, a staunch Republican, is fiercely pro LBGT rights, given his daughter is a lesbian.
1.7.7.2. Con: The fringe groups would become much larger, maybe not even be fringe anymore, this would change public attitude towards them.
1.7.7.3. Pro: This will particularly harm people with medical or genetic conditions which may impact their ability to work in the long term, even if there are no short term signs of incapacity.
1.7.7.4. Pro: This will particularly harm the employment prospects of women who are trying to have or thinking about having a baby.
1.7.7.5. Con: However, in the absence of this knowledge, employers make harmful assumptions \(eg not promoting a married woman as they assume she will want to have a baby.\)
1.7.7.5.1. Con: The database won't be able to inform employers of their employees' future intentions, so it is likely these assumptions will persist regardless.
1.7.7.6. Pro: A person's sexuality, religion, or family status have nothing to do with their ability to do their job, but is likely to count against them if revealed to their employer.
1.7.7.6.1. Pro: This can even lead to discrimination against minority groups such as Homosexuals and Muslims. It's not a one-sided issue, it's one that could potentially harm everybody as there isn't a single person who doesn't have a superior standing above them that could discriminate against them, whether intentionally or not, based on revealed information that isn't relevant to the job.
1.7.7.7. Con: If everyone has access to the hiring/firing records of employers, it will be easy to notice prejudicial patterns. This should act as a disincentive to prejudice in these processes.
1.7.8. Con: This would actually make discrimination significantly easier to prove and prosecute.
1.7.8.1. Pro: The act of surveillance is neutral, as long as it's continuous it will be easier to prosecute.
1.7.8.2. Con: That is based on presumption that every form of discrimination would be prosecuted, while the exact opposite may be true: consider irrevocable conflicts like "Conservatives vs. Progressives" or "Israelis vs. Palestinians". Wherever representatives of either of the groups were to be a minority, they could be persecuted with the approval of the majority. That persecution could be even excused as "anti-discriminatory discrimination of discriminators".
1.7.8.2.1. Pro: The nature of power within democratic governments and organisations is that majority groups implicitly or explicitly can excise disproportionate power of minority groups. The nature of what is determined and prosecuted as 'discrimination' is itself subject to the approval of majority groups meaning it can be easily repurposed to stymie minority interests.
1.7.8.3. Pro: Many employers have the ability to plead ignorance about the trait they are discriminating against under status quo.
1.7.8.3.1. Pro: It's hard not to notice discriminatory pay rates when all salaries are public
1.7.8.3.1.1. Con: -> See 1.7.3.5.
1.7.8.3.2. Con: That won't stop employers from selectively being more scrutinizing against certain employees than others, whether intentionally or not, based on personal viewpoints or factors beyond their control such as sex and religion. Even if we don't mean to be, we tend to have biases that we aren't consciously aware of and groups deemed undesirable will be especially at risk since nobody will stand up for them, nobody in a position of power at least.
1.7.8.4. Con: No it would not because the absence of privacy merely suggests that we are able to collect data about the hiring process but not about the motivations that underlie the decision to reject a candidate.
1.7.8.5. Con: This would make it easier to hide true motives for discrimination. For example, job applicant could be refused because while being the best candidate, their public profile showed they lacked some talent. Having no privacy doesn't mean our thoughts about what constitutes a good employee are public.
1.7.9. Con: Discrimination is able to become more rife when individuals continue to hide traits \(e.g. their sexuality\). It is reduced when these traits are more public and commonplace.
1.7.9.1. Pro: For example, if the sexuality of celebrities or public figures is public, these traits may be destigmatised
1.7.9.2. Con: Even if this is true long term, discrimination will increase in the short term, as attitudes will take longer to adjust relative to the instantaneous effect of universal surveillance.
1.7.9.2.1. Pro: This trade off is illegitimate as individuals shouldn't be used as battering rams on behalf of the state/the rest of their identity group.
1.7.9.3. Con: If people are afraid of observation, they are more likely to hide these kinds of traits, as opposed to in the status quo when they can at least display them selectively in some circumstances.
1.7.9.3.1. Pro: Lots of people have only been able to explore their LGBT identity online, without knowledge of their family or friends and often anonymously. This becomes impossible when all of their activity is known.
1.7.10. Pro: Having access to the database and the movements of marginalised groups would allow discrimination be further weaponised
1.7.10.1. Con: Not when the rest of us can see what you're doing and if you're conspiring or colluding with anyone. "Siri, don't take resumes from anyone who's been a racist in the last 2 years" will be a thing.
1.7.11. Pro: People who are disfigured will not be able to hide their disfigurement and will thus face insecurity, unhappiness and impaired chances in life.
1.7.11.1. Con: It will also become evident that disfigurement is more prevalent than people think and thus become normalised.
1.7.11.1.1. Con: That's making the assumption that their disfigurement is common. Also, something being more common won't make it more accepted.
1.7.12. Con: Women will suffer much less at the hands of men.
1.7.12.1. Pro: Domestic violence against them will be reported and considered proven by watching the stream, unlike today where this is next to impossible to document.
1.7.12.1.1. Con: An over-reliance on a fully automated system would lead to oversights and possibly wrongful accusation.
1.7.12.1.1.1. Con: The system could flag an incident, but the final judgement on whether to prosecute and convict would be decided by humans.
1.7.12.1.2. Con: A large number of abusive situations cannot be proven simply by watching a stream- for example if somebody was taken advantage of while drunk this would still be difficult to 'prove'
1.7.12.2. Pro: People with a history of violence and abuse will not be able to hide this.
1.7.12.2.1. Con: Abusive partners will be easily able to track their exes' movements, which hugely compromises their safety.
1.7.12.2.2. Pro: In order for this to be true, potential new partners would need to be suspicious of this in order to look it up in the first place.
1.7.12.2.3. Con: Alternatively, if a large number of men are abusive, this may serve to normalise it even further in the same way it would normalise generally embarrassing and weird behaviour.
1.7.12.3. Con: Those men will have access to information about everything the respective woman does, increasing the opportunity for coercive control.
1.7.12.3.1. Con: Coercion only works when the extortionist knows significantly more about the victim than the victim knows about them. With the database nobody has any more or less leverage over anyone else.
1.7.12.3.1.1. Con: The knowledge differential is irrelevant where one party knows the other is significantly more willing or able to escalate the situation and cause them harm.
1.7.12.3.2. Pro: Particularly jealous and controlling male partners may even want to stop them from seeing male friends and this would allow them to know whenever this was happening.
1.7.12.3.3. Con: The community/state would also know what actions these men were taking, and be able to punish/shame them appropriately for misdeeds.
1.7.12.4. Con: Women face a whole host of prejudices on a personal, professional, and institutional level. This means they particularly benefit from the ability to conceal and compartmentalise facets of their life.
1.7.12.4.1. Pro: For example, women are far more likely to be stigmatised for their sexuality than men.
1.7.12.4.2. Pro: Women also face huge prejudice regarding their ability to reproduce. This is something they may want to conceal from either their spouse or their employer.
1.7.12.4.3. Pro: -> See 1.7.12.3.2.
1.8. Pro: The world will become more productive.
1.8.1. Con: The world would be less productive. Constant monitoring and free access to all information would lead to an end to free thinking and innovation.Those constantly monitored at work would do less for fear of making mistakes
1.8.2. Pro: Lack of privacy would cause people and businesses to be the same publicly and privately, thus drastically changing society, but perhaps for the better.
1.8.3. Con: Some people, often with an academic or technology background, value their privacy and personal liberty so highly that they would immediately emigrate from a country where privacy didn't exist; regardless of the cost. Such an exodus would damage both economy and population.
1.8.3.1. Pro: If privacy \(and the associated perception of liberty\) was eliminated globally and there was no refuge left to emigrate into, a certain percentage of people would rather fight to death for their freedom and privacy then accept privacy-less world.
1.8.4. Con: New professions and techniques would emerge that exist ultimately to try and mitigate or nullify the effects of The Database; ultimately harming productivity.
1.8.4.1. Pro: With such an enormous database, individuals capable of most efficient searching through it all would gain an unfair edge, thus becoming most sought - and, likely, corrupt - specialists. Whoever has the most skilled Analysts gains the most advantage, learning competitors' drawbacks. At the same time, whoever has the most skilled Obfuscators - people trained in performing actions seemingly mundane, while actually of paramount importance - would have the best defense against Analysts.
1.8.5. Con: Productivity should not be the most significant factor in deciding whether to abolish privacy. The general wellbeing of communities and individuals \(to which productivity could contribute\) should take priority.
1.8.5.1. Pro: Why should productivity be a good measure of whether the lack of privacy is a good thing or not? Many things would increase production, including if everyone were forced to work in chain gangs.
1.8.6. Pro: People would become hypercoordinated, resulting in hyperorganisation.
1.8.6.1. Pro: It would be easier for each one to know the priorities and rythms of others \(what they do, what they think of, how much time each task takes, the sleeping hours of everyone, the eating hours, etc.\).
1.8.6.2. Pro: Each one would know what the others are doing without even asking, leading to a drastic saving of communication/distracting time.
1.8.7. Pro: Pursuing short-term gain at the expense of sustainability and general quality of life might diminish as destructive patterns in society would become transparent.
1.8.8. Pro: -> See 1.3.6.4.
1.8.9. Pro: Employers will have more data with which to analyse the efficiency of their business.
1.8.9.1. Pro: Increased access to people's internet search data and history will provide an insight into their preferences that business can capitalise on in product and service design.
1.8.9.2. Con: If privacy no longer exists, it may serve as a disincentive for individuals to use online services in the first place.
1.8.9.2.1. Pro: People might not want data relating to them to be available to anybody and so would not create it in the first place, meaning it wouldn't be available for businesses to capitalise on.
1.8.10. Pro: Improved productivity is a benefit which all individuals have a stake in. This is because it provides universal economic benefits through job creation, the trickle-down effect and increased taxation revenue.
1.8.10.1. Pro: Undiscovered talents will come to light.
1.8.10.2. Con: This is contingent on the trickle down effect working and a taxation policy that would actually bring in increased revenue. If large companies are making even more profit, they could use their economic power to influence government policy in such a way to lower the net tax intake.
1.8.11. Con: Businesses require some degree of secrecy in order to remain competitive.
1.8.11.1. Pro: A world without privacy effectively legitimises corporate espionage.
1.8.11.1.1. Con: Corporate espionage is less problematic when it can be done without lying or stealing.
1.8.11.2. Con: Where businesses do rightfully hold trade secrets, these can be protected under intellectual property law.
1.8.11.2.1. Con: With every action viewable, the very existence of "intellectual property" would be doubtful.
1.8.12. Con: There is less incentive to innovate when it does not give a business an edge over their competitors.
1.8.12.1. Pro: If competitiveness for profit \(between institutions, organizations and nations\) is not equally abolished with privacy, there is a risk of innovation turning into an accessible matter that is harvested rather than cultivated This would diminishing the value of work, which in the light of the possibilities technological advancements provide us is unnecessary, counter intuitive and cruel.
1.8.12.2. Pro: Companies will be less likely to invest in creating things like staff training materials, because these can be easily accessed by their competitors.
1.8.12.3. Pro: Given that research and development often costs huge amounts of money in the short term and can take years before paying off, companies need to be assured they will be the party to reap the benefit before they invest in it.
1.8.12.4. Con: There will still be an incentive to innovate, because that is still profitable, even if marginally less so.
1.8.12.5. Con: This model is more effective at rewarding innovation, because the most profitable company will be one which provides the best product or service, as opposed to the one who discovers it first.
1.8.12.6. Con: Even if the net level of innovation decreases, the benefit of that which does occur will increase, because it will be shared across the entire economy.
1.8.12.7. Con: The profit motive is not the only thing that motivates innovation. There will still be individuals in lots of industries who simply wish to make the world a better place and this will allow them to do so more easily through collaboration.
1.8.12.8. Pro: The motivation to produce anything original comes from the fact that you are able to enjoy the fruits of your labor, which absolutely requires the ability to develop your creation discretely before presenting it — the absence of privacy takes away the motivation to produce anything original.
1.8.13. Pro: Advances in the analysis of extremely large data sets \(aka "big data"\) have already made researchers in a variety of fields much more effective by allowing them to better identify hidden patterns and optimise outcomes. The big datasets provided by the database would accelerate these gains in productivity by an order of magnitude.
1.8.13.1. Con: By indiscriminately creating such large, broad, data sets, Big Data techniques could be used to manipulate or even censor the public.
1.8.13.2. Con: Big data analysis has been used [to justify and trigger targeted killings based solely on computer algorithms](http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/headlines/2014/05/ex-nsa-chief-we-kill-people-based-on-metadata/), thus destroying the human right for a fair trial. This creates is Kafkaesque world in which you are judged for appearance \(or any other correlation with some statistical sample\), without ever knowing or being able to defend yourself against the implications of that correlation.
1.8.13.3. Con: The notion that the availability of ever more data gets us closer to the discovery of truths has been [called into question](http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/01/why-big-data-is-not-truth/) by researchers.
1.8.13.4. Con: The practical effects of this would be a huge economic disruption, as any activity related to recording information about people would be rendered unnecessary.
1.8.13.4.1. Con: The huge gains in productivity would mean that the overall economic effect would be positive after an adjustment period.
1.8.13.4.2. Con: Even firms that lose their purpose keep their physical and human capital and would be able to adapt to take advantage of new market niches.
1.8.13.5. Pro: For example the use of 'Big Data' in Danish healthcare is used to better manage self-care strategies for chronic illnesses by [continuously analysing patient data](http://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/pressrelease/41065.wss).
1.8.13.6. Pro: For example, OKCupid was able to [identify particular questions that best predict relationship success](https://theblog.okcupid.com/the-best-questions-for-a-first-date-dba6adaa9df2#.hp4e89wtf) using its massive quantity of user data.
1.8.13.7. Con: This has little to do with privacy because these analyses do not at all require the involvement of personally identifiable information. Even genetic data can transformed such that it can be used for a specific type of analysis but cannot be retraced to an individual.
1.8.14. Pro: Future technologies, powered by AIs, will be able to serve humans much better when using this database.
1.8.14.1. Pro: An A.I. system would not only serve a people's needs better, but also form analytical judgments about how people think, communicate and behave, it would then be able to provide better services, laws and management abilities.
1.8.14.2. Pro: Autonomous vehicles will be safer, as they will be able to use this database to "look" around corners and see what the humans on or near the street are doing, thus being able to avoid accidents.
1.8.14.3. Pro: Personal assistants like Siri will improve by orders of magnitude when using this database.
1.8.14.4. Con: -> See 1.3.2.1.1.8.1.3.2.
1.8.14.5. Pro: Having so much access to an individual's personal information could enable technology to foresee medical ailments and alert a person that they need to undergo treatment or a procedure.
1.8.14.6. Con: There will always be a need for a human element to monitor the system, no matter how far the AI capability gets pre or post database creation.
1.8.14.6.1. Pro: This also brings up the "who watches the watchmen" concern. Everybody would - realistically - have to be inundated into the system to make it functional.
1.8.14.6.2. Pro: If there is need for human monitors, and those in power have ulterior motives, then their level of access to data could be put to use for nefarious purposes, such as harming political opponents.
1.8.14.7. Con: This is contingent on Strong AI being benevolent. If it is not benevolent the consequences of this kind of access to data could be catastrophic.
1.8.15. Pro: Employers will be able to better scrutinise their employees' work, commitment, honesty and behaviour.
1.8.15.1. Con: Companies would waste time and resources watching and monitoring their employees
1.8.15.2. Con: It is unclear why this would necessarily be universally good. Plenty of employers are unfair and severe.
1.8.15.3. Pro: This would better allow the monitoring of workplace bullying and abuse among workers.
1.8.15.3.1. Con: While bullying would be easier to prove, it still wouldn't increase the incentive for employers to reduce it.
1.8.15.4. Pro: People are likely to work harder when they know they are being surveilled.
1.8.15.4.1. Con: Hard work and good work are not equivalent. People may work harder \(or appear to work harder\) when they are under surveillance, but this does not mean that their work will be as good or better than work done under more private conditions.
1.8.15.4.2. Con: People are likely to be more worried about how they work if they're being surveiled. This doesn't necessarily mean more productivity, and often increased stress and unhappiness can lead to worse quality of work.
1.8.16. Con: Stress from lack of privacy would lower productivity.
1.8.16.1. Pro: To always be on the lookout, to always care about fitting in, to always compete and be "productive", everything that causes stress has been proven to cause cancer and other stress related diseases. We would have an unhealthier world.
1.8.16.2. Pro: [Existing research](http://www.slate.com/articles/business/the_ladder/2016/05/open_plan_offices_add_distractions_and_hurt_productivity.html) shows that reduced privacy in the workplace due to open office plans reduces workers' productivity.
1.8.16.2.1. Con: The article linked in this pro acknowledges that technological developments \(e.g. headphones, instant messaging, and so forth\) have solved many of the privacy/noise problems employees used to confront in an open office layout.
1.8.16.2.2. Con: This source is tertiary. It points to other popular press literature summarizing primary scientific documents, and, thus, may not accurately reflect the findings and limitations of the originative scientific work.
1.8.16.2.3. Con: Open office plans continue to grow in popularity. Provided an open office layout gels with employees' work patterns, it is reasonable to expect that they will be productive.[emeraldinsight.com](http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/14725960810885961)
1.8.16.2.4. Con: Evidence establishing a causal relationship between stress and lower productivity is contextually limited by time, place, and research design. An open office design that produces stress in one context may not produce it in another.
1.8.16.3. Con: The generations raised in an age lacking in privacy would have no notion of this stress.
1.8.16.4. Pro: Individuals will be less productive if they are worried about the impact of what would otherwise be private actions.
1.8.16.5. Pro: The absence of privacy will lead to a reduction in productivity because it disables the possibility for individuals to privately construct their arguments and ideas before expressing them. Given that false statements, flawed ideas, bad jokes, etc. have a negative effect on your job position or your social status this will lead to a chilling effect.
1.8.17. Con: Constant monitoring is extremely expensive, the active curbing of privacy in itself would cost hundreds of billions of dollars.
1.8.17.1. Con: Having perfect information on all citizens would eliminate the need for many routine government data collections, saving money on salaries and information collection costs.
1.9. Pro: The world will have better politics and governance.
1.9.1. Pro: State bureaucracy and services \(e.g. policing\) would be much more trusted and effective with full transparency.
1.9.1.1. Pro: Social welfare programs would be orders of magnitude more effective, as a publicly accessible database would mean it would be possible to accurately judge both a person's actual level of need and their in/ability to provide for themselves, without any room for ambiguity.
1.9.2. Con: Without equal filtering and interpreting capabilities and skills, there would be no substantial difference from our current world's problems of inequality in wealth and education, because humans simply cannot process big data without intelligent agents, let alone this hypothetical ever-recording database.
1.9.3. Con: Governments will be heavily affected by such a decision. This is because the abolishing of privacy will give more power to mega corporations. A lot of those corporations base their business models on the exploitation of privacy, such as by capturing search histories or other private data. This will, in turn, increase the companies' leverage with governments through more powerful lobbying.
1.9.4. Pro: The manipulation of elections would become impossible.
1.9.4.1. Con: Under a hierarchical state-based society, the state can \(and do\) violate their own laws. Being the controller of this public database, they would ultimately be able to violate the absoluteness or objectivity of the panopticon. Elections would be perfectly possible to rig, simply by controlling what was seen on the database. Unless the database were run by some sort of omniscient Marvel super-villain, this flaw would be easily exploited.
1.9.4.2. Con: You could still have elections manipulated through intimidation and the threat of reprisal —  threats that would become all the more real if there was no privacy in the act of voting itself.
1.9.4.2.1. Con: Any threat or intimidation would be know straight away and the person doing the threats or intimidation would face the law.
1.9.5. Con: Secret voting is a fundamental principle of democracy.
1.9.5.1. Pro: This would allow a political party, once in power, to perfectly target those that do not vote for that party with policies designed to prevent them from voting. Unless sufficient members of that party can look past it not affecting them, any liberal democracy could quickly and irrevocably transform into a de facto one party state.
1.9.5.2. Pro: Even the Universal Declaration of Human Rights refers to it in  by stating that elections "[shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedure](http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/)".
1.9.6. Pro: Voters would be able to better determine the character of their elected representatives by examining their backroom dealings and other private behaviour.
1.9.6.1. Pro: Secret ballots would be impossible. This would prevent politicians from going against orders of their party \(e.g. the [three-line whip](http://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/three-line-whip)\) and public pressure without repercussions when they believe that their consciences require it.
1.9.6.1.1. Pro: Most democracies give elected politicians a free mandate instead of an [imperative mandate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperative_mandate). They are supposed to represent their constituents and parties as they see fit and not bound to represent their will by the letter.
1.9.6.2. Pro: The actual behaviour of politicians will be transparent. Leaders do not just represent our ideological leanings but are often elected as the embodiment of moral values that are held dearly by voters.
1.9.6.3. Con: Attention on the personal lives of politicians only serves to distract the public from the things that should really matter in an election: like policies, experience, ideological stance, etc.
1.9.6.3.1. Pro: Politicians are humans too - they may have personal biases and short-comings and yet fight for what they think should be a better society.
1.9.6.4. Con: The right of politicians to have personal lives far supersedes the right of the public to know about their private matters.
1.9.6.4.1. Con: In this scenario though nobody has private matters; if anything it is more equitable than the status quo.
1.9.6.5. Con: This only gives us transparency into their actions; not their thoughts. Their public justifications for an action could mask underlying reasons that we might disagree with.
1.9.6.6. Pro: Universal transparency, including that of government privacy, will lead to a better people-government relationships. Better people-government relationships will lead to a more cohesive society.
1.9.6.7. Pro: The behaviour of all public officials can be monitored and thus reveal any illegal, unethical, or abusive behaviour.
1.9.6.7.1. Pro: Currently public officials rely on the power of their position to get away with corruption and graft. This would no longer be possible.
1.9.6.7.2. Pro: Currently 'on the ground' officials such as members of the police or military rely on the frantic nature of violence/crime to avoid scrutiny and accountability. Having a 'perfect' recording of their actions would help identify abuses.
1.9.6.7.3. Pro: About 75% of what is currently illegal would become legal pretty fast when the world sees how many people \(especially politicians\) are engaging in that kind of behavior.
1.9.6.8. Con: Those in Government service should have to give up their rights to privacy so that "we the people" can ensure they are taking care of us and not their own interests. But that does not mean that private citizens should have their right to privacy taken away as well — good governance is only aided by enforcing transparency for politicians and public servants.
1.9.7. Pro: Political parties will be forced to disclose their internal decision-making processes.
1.9.8. Con: The power that the database affords governments would encourage it to abuse or exploit its citizens.
1.9.8.1. Pro: Following Carl Schmitt's theory of the State of Exception, a state always possesses the necessary power and control over its subjects. Such a database would, in a hierarchical political system, be operated by the state. They could circumvent protests, challenges to the state's actions and laws, and so forth simply by controlling what was seen and enacting the State of Exception. This would allow for a highly authoritarian, omnipresent state capable of controlling all subjects.
1.9.8.2. Pro: The concept of privacy limits the scope of government — it generates a "private sphere" in which the law may not intrude.
1.9.8.3. Pro: The database enables the government to know precisely which citizens do not support it. Before it could only suspect.
1.9.8.3.1. Pro: If you lived in a theocratic regime, like Saudi Arabia, where actions are limited by the interpretation of religious scriptures, you could be punished for doing that what goes against those scriptures. The same people who weld omniscience could force sanctions on you despite you not adhering to their code of conduct.
1.9.8.3.2. Pro: Everybody considered troublesome by the government could be persecuted for its personal opinions and ideas, in the name of security and the fight against terrorism.
1.9.8.4. Pro: Machiavelli [spoke of](https://books.google.com.au/books?id=1UDFAgAAQBAJ&pg=PA10&lpg=PA10&dq=%22the+one+great+observable+fact+in+human%22&source=bl&ots=4O7ta8--FE&sig=0Q9Pb3mSWScmaq9BJKDPeqJWjKU&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiq0sr-7K7SAhVCS7wKHWDTC4IQ6AEIGzAA#v=onepage&q=%22the%20one%20great%20observable%20fact%20in%20human%22&f=false) the "inevitability of corruption" as "the one great observable fact in human affairs". There is a strong incentive for those in power to hold on to it and having a huge  surveillance apparatus at hand better enables them to do so.
1.9.8.4.1. Pro: "Liberal democracies" are already becoming totalitarian hellholes. A centralized databases that tracks our every move would be just one step closer to the dystopian nightmare Orwell warned us about in "Nineteen Eighty-Four"
1.9.8.4.2. Pro: As seen in the past many times, those in authority have abused their access to money, people, information, and power.
1.9.8.4.2.1. Con: The database would have to exist as a self-perpetuating system unto itself: fully autonomous and independent of human intervention and control. It would have to be immune from manipulation by those in power and regulate its use as an independent entity.
1.9.8.5. Pro: Whoever's in charge of such a system can easily abuse it, especially in favor of a certain political viewpoint.
1.9.8.6. Pro: If a government were to turn against its citizens, it could do so in a much more effective fashion using the database.
1.9.8.6.1. Pro: This has happened in the past. The extermination of Dutch Jews was highly efficient following the invasion of the Netherlands [in the 2nd World War](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netherlands_in_World_War_II#Holocaust) due to the existence of an extensive database containing records of the political and religious views of all Dutch citizens.
1.9.8.6.2. Con: -> See 1.9.6.7.
1.9.8.6.3. Pro: -> See 1.9.8.3.
1.9.8.7. Pro: Anyone who would be in charge of such a system can easily abuse it as we've seen historically whenever governmental systems gain too much power over people's lives.
1.9.8.8. Pro: Even elected governments will misuse this level of information to control groups whose views they don't like. They will also use it to sway public opinion in ways never before possible.
1.9.9. Pro: The world's international relations would be less marred by misperceptions among states about each other's intentions and capabilities; this would make for a more peaceful world.
1.9.9.1. Pro: The amount of state secrets will decrease.
1.9.9.1.1. Con: The release of some of those secrets could do unimaginable harm, for instance the GPS location of every nuclear weapon on Earth
1.9.9.2. Pro: The extremely sensitive issue of world peace requires strategic sharing of information among the countries and global organizations. If all information was transmitted, top-secret things like diplomacy and war strategies would be revealed in front of all; thus paving the way for international violence.
1.9.9.3. Pro: Many parts of governments would no longer be required as any actions and reactions would be know between countries before taking any such action against another country; putting all countries in a state of stalemate. As a result there would be more peace as all agendas would be know by everyone and the people would not be fooled into taking actions against other countries. Any conflict would have to have massive support despite this level of transparency.
1.9.9.4. Pro: According to a prominent [theory of war](http://web.stanford.edu/group/fearon-research/cgi-bin/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/Rationalist-Explanations-for-War.pdf) in international relations, the existence of private information is one of three rational explanations for war because it causes states to underestimate their rivals' capabilities and resolve, and thus to engage in war when it would actually be in their interest not to do so.
1.9.9.4.1. Con: The resolve of another state may be difficult to gauge despite the database.
1.9.9.4.1.1. Pro: Iraq twice fought against the overwhelming US-lead coalitions and did not surrender, even though defeat was inevitable, until Baghdad had fallen.
1.9.9.4.1.2. Pro: States may be led by irrational actors who act erratically, or against their own self interest.
1.9.9.4.2. Con: There are many other competing theories of war that take into account cultural and political factors, such as democratic peace theory.
1.9.9.5. Pro: The making of [secret treaties](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secret_treaty), which have historically been seen as a threat to peace, would become impossible.
1.9.9.5.1. Con: Secret treaties were historically used to create alliances against the possibility of unexpected wars. Post-database there would be no unexpected wars.
1.9.9.5.2. Con: Since WW2 war is much more rare and international organisations such as the UN much more effective. Hence the [declining need](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secret_treaty) for secret treaties.
1.9.9.5.3. Con: A lot of peace treaty negotiations are also secret — for example the Northern Ireland Peace Process would have fallen apart had it been common knowledge that back channel negotiations between [the IRA and the British Government](https://www.theguardian.com/uk/1999/oct/16/northernireland.thatcher) were taking place.
1.9.9.6. Pro: The two wars between the United States and Iraq as well as the decade of hostility in-between have been linked to the presence of [chronic misperceptions](http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/ISEC_a_00045) on both sides.
1.9.9.7. Con: Or, in the inverse, nations would be offended by a frank review of what other world leaders thought of them, exacerbating tensions instead.
1.9.9.7.1. Pro: The leaking of US [diplomatic cables](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2010/nov/28/us-embassy-cable-leak-diplomacy-crisis) in 2010 sparked an international diplomatic crisis.
1.9.9.8. Con: The fundamental problem of international relations would still remain in so far as it would still be the case that no leader could be absolutely sure of another's motivations and intentions.
1.9.9.9. Con: It may be impossible to make effective foreign policy when the content of any meeting or briefing is immediately made public. This could lead to states being less able to deal with crises.
1.9.10. Con: Governments sometimes need to conceal information in order to protect civilians and security
1.9.10.1. Pro: Everybody would suddenly know how to make WMD's.
1.9.10.2. Pro: Militarily, any society without privacy is at an enormous  strategic disadvantage to the societies which maintain it.
1.9.10.3. Pro: If potential terrorists know all the details of a country's defenses and security procedures this makes attacks much easier.
1.9.10.3.1. Con: Conversely, secrecy about any attack would be impossible, giving defence and security services a huge advantage which did not previously exist.
1.9.10.4. Con: Not all governments are benevolent. It would be beneficial for citizens to find out about the abuses of these governments.
1.9.11. Pro: Journalist integrity and objectivity would improve dramatically. Political leaders would no longer be able to manipulate the media cycle or find justifications for their propaganda.
1.9.12. Con: The legal systems of today were built in light of there being practical limits to state surveillance. In a post-database world having perfect surveillance and prosecution would mean laws that were seen as reasonable laws \(e.g. prohibitions against drugs, prostitution\) would be heavy-handed and oppressive if enforced universally.
1.9.12.1. Con: The availability of information will allow governments to make better laws.
1.9.12.2. Pro: Unjust laws would come to an end.
1.9.12.3. Con: The judicial system would have much more contextual knowledge of what led to the crime and who was harmed by it. This should lead to more just sentencing and more effective rehabilitation of criminals.
1.9.12.4. Con: This would likely spur these laws to be rewritten in a manner that is reasonable under universal enforcement.
1.9.12.5. Pro: At some point there are not enough eyes, ears or enforcers to keep the peace. Instead of improving quality of life, it declines due to ineffective policing and increasing protesting and violence where it should not be happening.
1.9.13. Con: The database would eventually create a cascade effect against it — human nature rebels naturally against too much control and too much freedom. Societies bounce between the extremes historically.
1.9.14. Con: The database might suppress viewpoints that are completely benevolent but less than popular due to a perceived divide, particularly those on the political right.
1.9.15. Con: Political power greatly benefits from information asymmetry. The powerful and wealthy will always be able to protect their privacy. The only way to level the playing field is for everyone to have privacy.
1.9.16. Con: It would not be beneficial to liberal democracies, it would be the end of them. What is described here is totalitarianism; literally the opposite of liberal democracy.
1.9.17. Con: Humanity would have have to evolve to the point of being completely peaceful. Without that precondition, this would be literally impossible to setup or maintain.
1.9.17.1. Con: The system would not require permission from anyone or country to operate. All agendas and secrets would be exposed and there would be a period of unrest while humanity cleans up the "evils" of the world which would lead to a greater period of peace.
1.9.17.2. Pro: No country would allow 24/7 surveillance and complete knowledge of all actions in their borders without other countries simultaneously enacting the change. Once that happened, all secrets would immediately be exposed, as all data and archives need be made public. Chaos would ensue.
1.9.17.3. Pro: Humanity cannot start fresh without grievances; and it is those grievances that the database would immediately expose.
1.10. Pro: The world would become safer and free of crime.
1.10.1. Con: All human creation and incentive would instantly become attacked by the same anti-social personality types \(approximately 5% of the population scientifically defined as psychotic or narcissistic\) who presently make the world dangerous in the first place.
1.10.2. Con: Societies would not become crime free, it would just be easier to prosecute.
1.10.2.1. Con: -> See 1.3.2.1.1.10.
1.10.3. Con: Seeing that it is immoral to take away privacy without consent, the act of removing all privacy is itself a crime against humanity, so it cannot make society "crime free".
1.10.3.1. Pro: Crime is a relative term decided by the majority. Lack of privacy will not make the world safer. Medicine would not have advanced if doctors wouldn't risk their lives by stealing corpses for research when the Catholic church made it illegal. While that was not a democracy you need to understand that the definition of crime is decided by majority and is not always a good definition. Abolishing privacy wont create a safer world ... rather a balance between privacy and security will.
1.10.3.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.9.12.
1.10.3.2. Pro: It is meaningless to say that a society will become crime free so long as it tolerates a particular sustained crime by the state. And an invasion of privacy like this is an international crime.[EU Human Right to Privacy](https://www.lawontheweb.co.uk/legal-help/right-to-privacy)
1.10.4. Pro: The database would reduce harm to humans during natural disasters and epidemics.
1.10.4.1. Con: The database adds no unique value since the government and media can provide the same information and help to people in those cases using existing technologies.
1.10.4.1.1. Con: Government and media cannot tell you where people that need to be saved are located, nor what condition they are in.
1.10.4.2. Pro: The database would allow the government to locate survivors much more effectively, as they will know how many people were in e.g. each knocked down building.
1.10.4.3. Pro: The database will allow government to forcefully evacuate those that do not follow the orders to get to safety.
1.10.4.4. Pro: The database will allow the government to help or explicitly notify the people that are unaware or too weak to make it to safety before disaster strikes.
1.10.4.5. Pro: Detailed knowledge of peoples' movements helps epidemiologists [identify key individuals and sites in the spread of a disease](http://journals.plos.org/plosntds/article?id=10.1371/journal.pntd.0000481), allowing for better medical intervention.
1.10.4.6. Con: If the government were unable to hide details of its own responses to disaster \(eg. evacuation or quarantine\) this could reduce the effectiveness of these measures.
1.10.5. Pro: -> See 1.3.2.1.1.
1.10.6. Con: Human nature will often lead us to commit acts of violence despite the threat of certain punishment.
1.10.6.1. Pro: We assume crime, felony and antisocial behavior have no useful purpose, but we don't know if this is always the case. What if some kids need to torture animals to become good adults? What if stealing from  supermarket helps you to be a good husband or wife? What if shouting at people once in a while prevented you from committing murder or suicide? Can we truly be good people if all our life we are restraining ourselves from doing something others would blame us for?
1.10.6.2. Pro: Humans will still fight when intoxicated or extremely provoked, such as in bar fights or 'crimes of passion.'
1.10.6.3. Con: Even if this is true, it is also true that a lot of crimes are planned out in advance and that a lot of criminals respond to incentives. At the very least, these crimes become a lot less likely.
1.10.6.4. Pro: Human nature has many bad motives with bad outcomes for those who have nothing to lose. Reprobate minds will always result in evil intent.
1.10.7. Con: The threat or execution of violent behaviour is an important tool for many groups who lack political power to highlight social issues.
1.10.7.1. Pro: [Activities such as looting are morally justifiable](http://thenewinquiry.com/essays/in-defense-of-looting/) because they allow groups who are economically oppressed to reclaim a share of wealth that has been denied to them.
1.10.7.1.1. Con: Unpunished and uncriticised looting creates a precedent where people will be more likely to steal in other circumstances.
1.10.7.1.2. Con: Often times the people you loot from are not the people who deserve to be looted. For example, looting usually occurs in low-income neighborhoods. It is not just to take from another person who is poor.
1.10.7.2. Pro: Violent protest [has been historically effective](http://theanarchistlibrary.org/library/peter-gelderloos-how-nonviolence-protects-the-state) at helping the civil rights movements in America and the anti-colonial movements in India because they give political movements power and leverage that allows them to resist suppression by the State.
1.10.7.2.1. Pro: Pacifist action only works for those with a degree of privilege; they know that the state will not crack down hard on their action.
1.10.7.2.2. Pro: Pacifist action only works for those with high degrees of visibility and who are likely to attract sympathy for their cause. For minorities this is less likely.
1.10.7.2.3. Pro: Violent action is, compared to pacifism, more likely to draw media attention and highlight the severity of an issue.
1.10.7.2.4. Pro: Violent action is an implicit threat to people’s safety; something that greatly concerns citizens. This gives the violent protestors more leverage when negotiating for their demands.
1.10.7.3. Con: Many of the most effective political protests have not required violent behavior by protestors.
1.10.7.3.1. Pro: The majority of the Occupy movement did not resort to violence but protested, occupied and resisted peacefully.
1.10.7.3.2. Pro: The Pegida protests and anti-protests throughout Germany are peaceful.
1.10.7.3.3. Con: Most of the most famous case studies in the gaining of political rights featured a mixture of violent and peaceful protest — the ANC in South Africa used both, and in the civil rights campaign in America the more militant approach of groups such as the Black Panthers complimented the approach of the more peaceful Martin Luther King.
1.10.7.4. Con: People could still be violent with the elimination of privacy. Most people who use violence as a tool for change do not try to hide their actions.
1.10.7.5. Pro: Even non-violent protest could come under threat as this makes it a lot easier for the State to break up potential protests that it does not want to face.
1.10.7.6. Pro: Regardless of whether or not violent protest actually happens, its very potential can act as a check on the behaviour of a state toward minority groups. Now states can act with impunity, safe in the knowledge that they could easily stop any potentially violent reprisals.
1.10.8. Con: Some 'knowledge crimes' such as insider trading, criminal conspiracy, or extortion can be performed in a subtle manner that would leave little or no evidence trail. For example, communications can be made using obtuse signals or codes and masked in seemingly-legitimate causes or motivations.
1.10.8.1. Con: If this is possible than it only means that we have not achieved freedom from privacy yet.
1.10.9. Con: When information about ongoing law enforcement investigations into criminal activity is publicly available, criminals can readily find out if they're under scrutiny, and may destroy evidence.
1.10.9.1. Pro: This creates safety issues where people might do something dangerous to avoid being seen \(such as in the movie '[The Circle'](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt4287320/) or [celebrities avoiding paparazzi](http://www.j-14.com/posts/6-times-the-paparazzi-put-celebrities-in-danger-41236/photos/selena-gomez-49570)\)
1.10.9.2. Con: Their destruction of evidence would also be recorded.
1.10.10. Pro: -> See 1.3.2.1.1.10.2.3.
1.11. Pro: The world will become significantly more honest and transparent.
1.11.1. Con: The world would become less honest. Clever people will find innovative ways to hide the truth of their wealth and position leading to inaccurate databases and poor decisions made when referencing them
1.11.2. Con: While the information would be public, few would have the resources to really dig through it.
1.11.2.1. Pro: So much data would be almost impossible for an average person to use and understand. Powerful people and companies would be the only ones with the capacity to actually make sense of the "noise" and analyze it for their own benefit.
1.11.2.2. Pro: Such a system would not be used equally on all people in society and it would not lead to more transparency of governement or big corporations.
1.11.2.3. Con: Presumably a huge number of services would spring up to make searching through this data easy and accessible.
1.11.3. Con: Forced honesty is not honesty, it is fear. What seems to be being subtly advocated here is more like a society-wide [struggle session](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Struggle_session).
1.11.4. Pro: We' be recording our own history, for our descendants  to know their history. They would get to know their ancestors with clarity.
1.11.5. Pro: Romantic and sexual relationships will benefit from complete transparency and honesty.
1.11.5.1. Pro: Everybody's past performances would be used by future potential sexual partners to evaluate whether they would want to have sex with one another or not.
1.11.5.1.1. Con: Some potentially successful lasting relationships may never have a chance to form as people pre-filter otherwise perfectly compatible partners based on irrelevant sexual histories.
1.11.5.1.2. Con: Others will abstain from sex altogether for fear of being watched.
1.11.5.1.2.1. Con: In the case of rapists, abstention from sex would be a good thing.
1.11.5.2. Con: Everyone would be paralyzed in a constant loop of indecision if they should give another person a chance or if it might fail 3 years in the future and ruin their "reputation". If the deterrent for a risk is too high no one will assume this risk. This is something always taken into account in legislation and fines —  not enough deterrents creates chaos, too many creates stagnation.
1.11.5.3. Con: -> See 1.11.5.1.2.
1.11.5.4. Pro: Laying bare everyone's sexual history will help form lasting relationships, as potential couples can ensure that their sexual drive and sexual interests are well suited for each other.
1.11.5.4.1. Con: -> See 1.11.5.1.1.
1.11.5.5. Con: Camille Pagilia has argued that sexual selection requires danger, i.e. the unknown. The database would eliminate the unknown by exposing everyone's sexual habits, which could encourage some mating, but would end those that seek risk in sexual decisions.
1.11.6. Con: Absolutely abolishing privacy necessitates a complete honest, benevolence in society. Societies need ways to compensate for situations where the systems flaws are exploited, privacy in some cases is a good option to accomplish such end.
1.11.7. Con: The world would only become more honest about matters of fact. People could still lie about their personal thoughts and feelings, which would remain a key source of conflict and hurt.
1.11.7.1. Con: Being honest about matters of fact is still significant. Lying about personal thoughts and feelings happen in the status quo, so there would be no difference.
1.11.8. Pro: Freeing people from secrets and secrecy will remove a major stressor in many people's lives.
1.11.8.1. Pro: The current state of affairs encourages people to seek loopholes and sneak past rules protecting privacy. Abolishing them all would bring clarity and honesty.
1.11.8.2. Pro: -> See 1.3.3.1.1.
1.11.8.3. Pro: Maintaining a secret can require constant vigilance, which in turn takes an increased cognitive load.
1.11.8.4. Con: The absence of privacy will rather add stress as the potential reactions of every other person to one's actions \(and thereby effects on, for example, one's reputation\) have to be taken into account. Right now this is not the case as most behavior never becomes visible to others.
1.11.8.5. Con: The absence of secrets would make lying and deception impossible, which would undermine a foundation of our social structures and go outright [against human nature](http://articles.chicagotribune.com/1991-02-17/news/9101150700_1_deception-humans-animals).
1.11.8.5.1. Con: Many [Marxists argue that](http://sfr-21.org/human-nature.html) human nature is contingent upon the material conditions of the world in which you live. If the world changes considerably, as the annihilation of privacy entails, so will human nature.
1.11.8.5.2. Con: Just because something is against human nature and/or undermines pre-existing social structures does not mean it is bad.
1.11.9. Pro: Friends, family members, and romantic partners sometimes remember past conversations differently \(or lie about their memories\), causing arguments about what was said. The database would definitively settle those arguments.
1.11.9.1. Con: Such relationship-related arguments often stem from perception of complex interactions, where people remember the message they intended to transmit versus what they actually said. Arguments help us understand how the other thinks and feels; thus building empathy. Ignoring emotions in favour of "I am right because Database says so" would destroy such a process and lessen our capacity for empathy.
1.11.9.2. Pro: Resolving conflict based on a factual record of events with all nuance intact would be much simpler than it is now.  The database would be truth itself.
1.11.9.3. Con: Sometimes mutually agreed upon lies can be important to keeping a relationship \(romantic or otherwise together\). The truth isn't necessarily an inherent good.
1.11.10. Pro: Humans would stop displaying themselves as being someone other than they are, to themselves and to others.
1.11.10.1. Pro: People will waste much less time discovering whether a potential partner is a good match or not.
1.11.10.1.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.11.1.2.2.1.
1.11.10.1.2. Pro: People would be able to assess the personalities and interests of anyone they met.
1.11.10.1.3. Con: This would also take away any sense of mystery or discovery, or shared secrets, from relationships.
1.11.10.1.3.1. Pro: Partners gradually opening themselves up to each other and being vulnerable to each other can often be the most rewarding part of a relationship,
1.11.10.1.4. Pro: Lying to a potential partner would be easily caught, so dating will be much more honest and direct.
1.11.10.1.4.1. Pro: People could check very quickly or ask friends to have a look at someone's stream to confirm whether what they say is correct.
1.11.10.1.4.2. Pro: Your friends may watch you during the early stages of any potential relationships.
1.11.10.1.5. Pro: -> See 1.7.12.2.
1.11.10.1.6. Pro: -> See 1.3.7.5.1.
1.11.10.1.7. Con: Regardless of how much you know about somebody, you cannot know if they are a good match or not without interacting with them.
1.11.10.2. Pro: -> See 1.3.10.3.
1.11.10.3. Pro: There would be no need to conceal parts of your body that you do not like.
1.11.10.3.1. Pro: -> See 1.4.11.1.2.2.1.
1.11.10.3.2. Con: Presumably not everybody would be constantly checking the database, so you would still have incentive to look good to strangers if that's what you wanted.
1.11.11. Con: With complete transparency comes the absence of surprise. People will no longer be able to choose when to reveal good or bad news in order to enhance or diminish its impact.
1.11.11.1. Con: There will be no more surprise parties, holiday gifts, gender reveals, or other surprises that most people consider fun and happy.
1.11.12. Pro: Understanding the world and one's place in it will become much easier.
1.11.12.1. Pro: The world and its actors would be transparent to you.
1.11.12.1.1. Con: -> See 1.9.6.5.
1.11.12.2. Pro: Society has, for some time, been prepared for higher ideals and lowering privacy. Recognizing transformations that merit concrete updates would provide better models for society functions.
1.11.12.3. Con: A deluge of information would not necessarily lead to an increase in understanding. There would be information overload and individuals would not have the capacity to process such a large amount of information \(even to the extent of filtering it to remove the irrelevant information\).
1.11.12.3.1. Con: The rise of the Internet, and the ensuing ocean of information, has not had such an effect.
1.11.12.3.1.1. Pro: The internet provides many methods for filtering large amounts of information — such as how the social voting \(e.g. Reddit\) can surface important news or resources.
1.11.12.4. Pro: Having all information about people and their actions available would give interested parties the ability to truly understand why certain things happened.
1.11.12.4.1. Pro: There would be no more conspiracy theories as all evidence would be available to everyone.
1.11.12.4.1.1. Con: This assumes conspiracy theorists are rational, they will still claim that footage has been doctored and things like that.
1.11.12.4.2. Pro: Having a friend or family member disappear is a big source of anguish. This would prevent it.
1.11.12.4.3. Con: Being able to see an action does not give you absolute insight into how an action happened as that requires knowing someone's thoughts.
1.11.12.5. Con: This level of honest information will, in many cases, lead to depression and possibly suicide.
1.11.12.5.1. Pro: This will create a lot of gossip, not tolerance and empathy. People will know everything about each other and they will individualistically and competitively compare themselves to others, creating sometimes less satisfaction with oneself, until they might get depressed and suicidal. On a global social scale, that could become a threat to humanity.Later edit: Suicide tendencies might come because some people are emotionally insecure, dependent on society and might be more empathic by nature.
1.11.12.5.2. Con: In many of cases, depression is made worse because people don't have complete information and through paranoia assume the worst. This at least precludes that possibility.
1.11.12.6. Con: The world is complicated and baffling at the best of times. Having access to all this information would likely be overwhelming and even more confusing- at least in the status quo one could tell oneself believable fictions.
1.11.12.7. Pro: 'Filter bubbles' where user's media is shaped towards assuaging their own perspectives will be harder to maintain.
1.11.13. Con: Sometimes lying is necessary and even moral to prevent harm.
1.11.13.1. Pro: People frequently tell 'white lies' as a means of preserving feelings or avoiding unnecessary conflict.
1.11.13.1.1. Con: This frequently causes worse problems later on.
1.11.14. Pro: Many behaviours, such as cheating on one's spouse, are legal but unethical because they cause harm to others. Enforcing honesty will prevent them.
1.11.14.1. Con: If an action is not harmful enough to be made illegal, people should be free to perform that action.
1.11.15. Pro: Lying in general will become extremely rare and risky as it can be easily noticed and verified. As a result most forms of cheating or deception will disappear.
1.11.15.1. Con: Lies could be based on manipulating the context or interpretation of facts. The proposed system of The Database would further empower such manipulation, because manipulators could analyze their victims to pick the best technique; victims would presume that lies have disappeared; or informational overflow would facilitate easy cherry-picking of convenient facts.
1.11.15.2. Con: This is not necessarily true. Lies that are convincing enough such that whoever is being lied to is not suspicious enough to check the database would still be possible.