Discussion Title: Would Humanity Be Better Off Under A Global Government?

1. Humanity would be better off under a global government.
1.1. Pro: A global government would not have to compete for power on the international stage. Thus it can focus solely on improving societal wellbeing.
1.1.1. Con: There is no unitary and practical measure that could benefit the lives of everyone in the world, at the same time. Thus, whenever a decision was made, a portion of this new global population would be hurt at cost of issues considered to be priority, in the respective moment.
1.1.2. Con: Such a government would have to divide certain parts into more localized regions. Such regions would then vie for power.
1.1.2.1. Con: Although they may vie for power, this competition would be based on soft-power and politics, not open conflict. Thus, even if competition arises, a fair chunk of the world's production would still be devoted to social and educational progress instead of arms and weapons.
1.1.2.2. Con: The division of needs isn't necessarily dictated by geography, but rather by interest of certain groups. If so, then local governments wouldn't have so much influence to remain powerful. So is the case in many unitary states, which have regional administration, where no fight for power takes place.
1.1.3. Pro: A global government would result in a consolidation of power that humanity has never before seen.
1.1.3.1. Con: If that global government turns bad, there would be no other powerful entity to oppose to that government, and no way to run away from it.
1.1.3.1.1. Con: A government leads a population. Said population will always be able to topple any government provided they wish it, if only because of numbers \(especially when those numbers are in the billions\).
1.1.4. Pro: A global government would eliminate territory disputes.
1.1.4.1. Con: Not necessarily: there still would be different populations with each their own identity and philosophy. How could you possibly convince them all to adhere to the universal government? They would all want independence and territory.
1.1.4.1.1. Con: Such a global government may not necessarily be something one adheres to, and could very well be something that the world creates together in order to achieve societal progress.
1.1.4.1.2. Con: This does not already present as an issue in currently established nations.  For example, the states within the USA do not attempt to take territory from one another.
1.1.4.1.2.1. Con: A number of states in already established nations are trying to be independent, however. Brexit, Scotland in the UK, and Catalonia in Spain are recent, pacifist examples. Unfortunately, there are also non-pacifist attempts.
1.1.5. Pro: One global government would mean far less need be spent on arms and weapons.
1.2. Con: There is so much variety in the world: each region has its own needs, resources, level of development, and cultures. It would be impossible to make laws that satisfy equally everyone without any bias in favor of a specific region.
1.2.1. Pro: Every law and government communication would have to be translated to every language in the world, using too much time and money.
1.2.1.1. Con: English is already a de facto lingua franca in the international scene. The UN has a few official languages, allowing most of the world's population to have documents in their native language. A global government would not pose any language issue.
1.2.1.2. Con: However, the use of an auxiliar international language like Esperanto could be the solution to this problem. Actually It would be necessary for a global government.
1.2.2. Pro: Certain religious groups refuse to accept human governance, with varying means of resistance.
1.2.2.1. Pro: Catholicism created [its own](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vatican_City) nation/state.
1.2.2.2. Pro: Some parts of Islam [demand Sharia](https://www.dawn.com/news/1384229) law before any other judicial system.
1.2.2.3. Pro: The [Amish](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2014/08/15/amish-ten-things-you-need-to-know/14111249/) create their own community inside the government.
1.2.3. Pro: Different governmental models have had varying amounts of support from their populations. Those models antithetical to the existing structures would generate resistance.
1.2.3.1. Con: A global government does not need to be centralised, and may be a decentralised government, allowing various populations to choose the local/regional government model that best suits their culture.
1.2.4. Con: With this logic, the only acceptable form of government would be a union of individual sovereign citizens, each being a government in its own right.
1.2.5. Pro: Forcing rival groups together into artificially constructed countries has led to civil warfare, for instance in Iraq. A similar problem could arise if rival countries today were forced to be in the same global government.
1.2.5.1. Con: Forcing rival groups together into artificially constructed countries has led to civil warfare when one or several groups oppressed other groups, or when the government heavily favoured one group over the others. An unbiased government would not antagonise rival groups, and create an environment where coexistence is possible.
1.2.5.2. Con: Forcing rival individuals together into artificially constructed groups \(whatever they may be\) has led to fights between some individuals. Yet, that was not enough to stop us from living in societies that are mostly, peaceful.
1.2.5.2.1. Con: There has yet to be a single time in history where there was zero warfare globally. Evidently, we cannot live in peace with other nations.
1.2.5.2.1.1. Con: It can also be said that never before in history has all of humankind been organized politically into one homogeneous group.  Most nations within the developed world do not experience armed conflict within the nation itself.
1.2.6. Con: The [UN](http://www.un.org/en/) has already achieved many [legally binding international agreements](https://blogs.un.org/blog/2012/09/24/most-ratified-international-treaties/), which have been accepted by every country in the world.
1.2.7. Pro: One size fits all means that nothing fits right for anyone. Local government is far more responsive to the people.
1.2.7.1. Con: This is not necessarily true. To enforce a global government's directive, a certain degree of local government will always be necessary; the point is more to unify international forces, strengthen the global economy, etc. As such, the two are not mutually exclusive, and indeed work best together.
1.2.7.2. Pro: It would be almost impossible to implement international law, as they would need to rely on different jurisdictions.
1.2.7.3. Pro: It would be impossible to fix a global minimum wage, because it would be either too high for the underdeveloped regions or too low for the developed regions.
1.2.7.3.1. Con: A global government implies a higher cooperation between "states", thus advancing towards homogenising development throughout the world. "Developed" and "Underdeveloped" may no longer be relevant after a time.
1.2.7.3.2. Con: A global minimum wage is not necessary. Japan is one such example of a country that provides a minimum wage that differs in each prefecture, depending on cost of living. A similar system would be conceivable on a global scale.
1.2.7.3.3. Con: If produce price is scaled depending on country and availability, and is centrally moderated, it may well be possible to find a suitable minimum wage.
1.2.8. Pro: This global government would heavily rely on communication technologies. If for some reasons, this technology disappears or becomes unavailable, the government will not be able to operate. Today's governments can still operate with, or rollback to, paper and pens in case of nature disasters.
1.3. Pro: A global government would result in consistent laws.
1.3.1. Con: Those laws can be very oppressive, and by applying them everywhere you deny people the right to choose the laws they want.
1.3.1.1. Con: They may, and they may not be, depending on the legislative model chosen for the global government \(parliamentary, etc.\).
1.3.1.2. Con: One could say the same of every government model, whether global or not. Nobody gets to choose which law suits them most.
1.4. Pro: A global government is inevitable, it will happen either by conquest or by consensual necessity.
1.4.1. Pro: Evolution brought humanity on the threshold of being a Type 1 civilization on the [Kardashev scale](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kardashev_scale). It's is only a question of time before we get there.
1.4.1.1. Con: Achieving type 1 on the Kardashev Scale does not limit the type of government on the planet.
1.4.2. Pro: Historically, major civilizations were expansive \(Greek empire, Roman empire, 3rd Reich, etc\) motivated by the idea of world domination though never achieved it. But the concept of [world domination](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_domination)  became possible as a practical objective only with the rise of science and its application to mechanical invention.
1.4.2.1. Pro: Limited world resources combined with a growing population will create tensions between nations. Many systems are irreversibly global \(communications, economics, social networks, etc\). 

Considering human history, it will lead to only 2 options: Global conquest by one nation/civilization or Global federation of all humans.
1.4.2.1.1. Con: As resources in one area dwindle, human invention leads to utilizing better or alternative sources.
1.4.2.1.2. Con: There has always been tension between societal groups. These groups band together to form coalitions that support their interests. These are called nations, and this is why there cannot be one overarching government.
1.4.2.1.2.1. Con: This is also true of current nations, as they deal with tension between groups within their own society. Said coalitions at this level would be lobbies for instance.
1.4.2.2. Con: World domination cannot be achieved as different groups have different needs.
1.5. Con: Humans strongly disagree on what values are legitimate, and it is not clear how a global government would accommodate those disagreements. Attempts to create a global government might set off civilizational war rather than allowing individual nations to peacefully coexist.
1.5.1. Pro: The cultural clashes in the US and the resulting political dysfunction demonstrates the difficulties and handicaps associated with governing groups that disagree vehemently.
1.5.2. Con: For strong disagreement on what values are legitimate you only need two people. Theses struggles, to find common ground are true at any level \(district, city, region, state, federal, etc\), yet people, in general, do coexist peacefully.
1.5.2.1. Con: As history has shown \(e.g. [French revolution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/French_Revolution)\) people tend to not peacefully coexist any longer when their disagreement reaches a specific level of fundamentality, such as future form of government or general judicial system.
1.5.2.1.1. Con: At the same time effectiveness of such conflict escalation is less impactful on a global government as it is improbable that an extremist movement would reach a global extent.
1.5.2.1.2. Pro: Based on the fact that every system of coexistence needs a common set of rules to live within, it would be necessary which rules should apply. Every system is based on morals and beliefs but there is no fair objective way to evaluate its suitability without denying foreign values.
1.5.2.2. Con: Values can barely be decided by the smaller governments that currently make up the world. Revolts, marches, protests all occur on a regular basis to criticise the leading government. A global government would intensify that issue.
1.5.2.2.1. Con: Values \(honesty, respect, compassion, etc\) are facts, facts about the well-being of sentient creatures. It is the ONLY thing we have to agree on as a starting point for establishing a common \(global\) ethical framework.
1.5.3. Pro: It is naive to think that a global government would remain benevolent. "Power Corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely" -Lord Acton. Imagine the corruption, the power struggle between officials, the constant expansion of government powers, etc.
1.5.3.1. Con: There could be an opt-out option for its memberstates like in the EU. Also, there could be an emphasis on local governments and independent political organs, like expert-groups.
1.5.3.1.1. Con: If a nation ops out of being under global control, there is no global government.
1.5.3.2. Con: [Argumentum in terrorem.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Appeal_to_fear) Appealing to fear is not a logically correct way of reasoning.
1.5.4. Con: Inequality of access to information around the globe may have created important knowledge gaps, which could be the source of most disagreements
1.5.4.1. Con: This implies that there is a universal set of truths and "right" decisions, provided that the access to information is limitless. Nevertheless, factors like parental education, childhood and religion have an impact on the opinions on people regardless of their access to knowledge.
1.6. Con: Diversity of mindsets, cultures and eventually, governments, is more effective survival strategy. Different people pay attention on different things and react to threats differently. Therefore, the most complex understanding of the world and the best optimized responses to future threats are achieved only if governance remains diverse.
1.7. Pro: A global government would simplify trade and benefit the global economy.
1.8. Pro: Humanity is able to address existential threats \(climate change, resource shortages, artificial intelligence\) more readily under a global government.
1.8.1. Pro: Nuclear disarmament becomes easier under a global government.
1.8.2. Con: One world government would likely result in less competition between member states \(or member regions\). This would likely result in less resources invested in research and less economic competition resulting in fewer economic reforms.
1.8.2.1. Con: Competition is not only between states but also within. One can expect the level of competition between companies, universities, etc. to remain the same.
1.8.2.2. Con: Competition is not the only driver of progress. [Cooperation](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2016/05/160512100708.htm) appears to have a large role in evolution as well.
1.8.2.3. Pro: Under the cold war, competition between the US and the Soviet Union resulted in humans on the moon.
1.8.2.3.1. Con: The actual short terms benefits of this achievement for humans living on Earth is questionable.
1.8.2.4. Con: If happiness isn't correlated to progression, then maybe economical and scientific progression would slow down, but global happiness would go up.
1.8.3. Pro: A global government would manage and protect resources \(natural, mineral, water etc\) much more effectively.
1.8.3.1. Con: Disastrous policies regarding resources could have even more harmful consequences in a global government.
1.9. Pro: The consolidation of knowledge and information under a global government would increase the rate of technological and societal progress.
1.10. Pro: A global government would extremely likely to be devolved federal government or confederation, which would ensure that all the regions would have a say in the matters, along with bringing decisions closer to the populace. Thus large scale things would be decided on the upper level while everyday business could be devolved to smaller administrative units.
1.10.1. Con: In many areas of the world people dispute who is a "legitimate" inhabitant and who is not. A global government would have to decide which group has greater claim to certain territories, necessarily antagonizing some groups over others.
1.10.1.1. Con: Under a global government it wouldn't really be necessary to divide territory as there would be no formal difference.
1.10.1.2. Pro: Unless the global government sought to eliminate cultural identities as well, different human groups will continue to lay claim to certain territories.
1.10.2. Pro: As long as it has a universal constitution that can be enforced worldwide by an international military police force and executive/judicial/legislative body that is operated by an organized direct democracy with laws originating at the local level.
1.11. Con: A global government would make it easier for a small corrupt group or individual to rule the world.
1.11.1. Pro: There would be no true escape from a corrupt global government.
1.11.2. Con: With the high stakes that come with such a global government, one can expect a similarly high-level scrutiny of above-mentioned government by the civil society.
1.11.3. Pro: A Global Government could only exist if global capitalism was abolished where human and environmental welfare were the sole concern.
1.11.4. Con: The heirachical nature of a government goes against the well intentioned idea that we must work together to achieve success. A set of global priorities for all humans could be agreed upon and used as an alternative to a small group of individuals holding so much decision-making power. A new system would have to be designed so that those leaning towards narcissism and grandeur, and therefore self-interest, would not end up in charge of key decision processes.
1.12. Con: Current governance structures wouldn't apply to a global government; this makes it difficult and risky to implement.
1.13. Con: The most desirable locales would experience overpopulation due to easier travel and relocation.
1.13.1. Pro: This problem already exist despite strict border regulation in the current countries. Under a global government there would be no borders and the problem would intensify.
1.13.2. Con: There would be no political refugees, because that would make no sense in a world with unified politics.