Discussion Title: Would the world be a better place with humans?

1. The world would be better without humans.
1.1. Pro: Had humanity never existed human beings would never have suffered.
1.1.1. Con: There are positive trends that suggest that the situation is improving.
1.1.1.1. Pro: [The quality of human life is actually getting better](https://www.vox.com/the-big-idea/2016/12/23/14062168/history-global-conditions-charts-life-span-poverty). Suffering is on the decline with poverty, violence and disease. The apocalypse is not nigh.
1.1.1.2. Pro: In spite of shrill alarmist rhetoric, the[Earth is getting greener.](http://theconversation.com/despite-decades-of-deforestation-the-earth-is-getting-greener-38226) Humans are coming to their senses. To see a better world just wait.
1.1.2. Con: This would cause suffering in the process.
1.1.2.1. Con: This is comparing the *infinite* peace of oblivion compared to *finite* suffering. The payoff/rewards are far greater.
1.1.2.2. Con: It is said that the nuthouses were empty during the bombing of Dresden. It could just as easily be argued that it would cause clarity of thought, group unity and a sense of meaning.
1.1.3. Con: This would also eliminate human happiness entirely.
1.1.3.1. Con: This is true, but if the equation includes suffering - which is the greater of the two - one gets a positive effect.
1.1.3.1.1. Con: It is assumed that human suffering matters more than human happiness or is greater than human happiness.
1.1.3.1.1.1. Con: Human suffering is more important than human happiness.
1.1.3.1.1.1.1. Pro: Suffering is far more prevalent among humans and deserves greater consideration.
1.1.3.1.1.2. Con: Not matters more but it is more. The sheer quantity of human suffering is greater. Eliminating suffering would therefore create the greatest good for the greatest number. Happiness barely registers on the meter of human experience.
1.1.3.2. Con: This is a good thing. Human happiness is a great affront to the vast majority of humans who suffer tragically. Put another way -- happiness occurs at the expense of others for the privileged few.
1.1.3.2.1. Con: There is absolutely no way to validate the claim that all happiness occurs at the expense of other human beings. Many sources of happiness come at no cost to others, such as a loving relationship or raising a child.
1.1.3.2.1.1. Con: The suitors rejected by the members of the happy couple.
1.1.3.2.1.2. Con: There must be some distinguishing between short-term and long-term effects here. The child may grow to become a CEO of DuPont and poison Flint Michigan \[as the real DuPont did\], as a hypothetical example.
1.1.3.2.1.2.1. Con: Yes, they may, but the odds are not in favor of this argument. If one assumes that the cost of an action is the sum of the cost of all possible ramifications, where each ramification's cost is determined as probability of occurrence or utility cost, then it seems unlikely that this line of reasoning can prove that this source of happiness comes at a greater cost to others. There are, after all, only a couple thousand CEO's in the whole world.
1.1.3.2.1.2.1.1. Con: The total number of people: living in poverty, without access to clean water, without access to modern medicine, living under medieval forms of government/despotism etc., is greater than the number of people with yachts and gardeners. So the odds that adding another mammal to this equation increases happiness, the number of lives in bliss and contributes to global health and happiness - are quite low.
1.1.3.2.1.2.1.2. Con: This may be true only if the algorithm restricts itself to CEOs . The likelihood that a human would have a negative impact on the planet is virtually guaranteed.
1.1.3.2.1.2.1.3. Con: In all possible ramifications the possible things that can go wrong are incalculable -- there are few that are beneficial.
1.1.3.2.1.2.2. Pro: In many countries like Spain, [forests are increasing](https://www.nature.com/articles/nclimate2581.epdf?referrer_access_token=8chTouc4AFUEoSohe9TKLdRgN0jAjWel9jnR3ZoTv0NAJ5kAuOuTRGQv1e0pm6qLYzoV3hmyWobR5EIh_91pdre7OLuwcKPBcMlMIIUF0gwXWkd6WJcUgTuLAqNm1Gya7MYKE0IjmVcdDi-JMzDMnBLK-7mTvXKXpir2KaI3OO2YDp4dLfUyMRwnmDsccTCnvfm4zLkEF6_bep8rH7Ohy7n21gSL3IbOr92eHrfpG-JxKuFfKjpb-1dkwRlLwJ2XoURx1WhvWSZHhQhGfOticA%3D%3D&tracking_referrer=www.iflscience.com). To see utopia one needs only wait.
1.1.3.2.1.2.3. Con: CEOs can create on a large scale as well as destroy. The quality of human life is actually higher today. Suffering is in retreat.
1.1.3.3. Con: The happiness of the privileged few would be eliminated bringing balance back to the universe.
1.1.3.3.1. Con: If there is a privileged group who's lives are mostly happiness, then it does not optimize the utilitarian equation to kill them. The most optimal eradication solution would be for only the sufferers to kill themselves.
1.1.3.3.1.1. Con: It is certainly the optimal solution from the point of view of the privileged few -- but sub-optimal from the point of view of the suffering majority. From 30,000 feet, a balanced distribution is optimal.
1.1.3.3.2. Con: [Happiness](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Happiness_Report#/media/File:Happiness_score_of_countries_according_to_the_World_Happiness_Report_\(2018\).png) is a global phenomenon.
1.1.4. Con: Eliminating something negative by also eliminating anything positive is on balance not a net positive.
1.1.4.1. Con: Suffering and happiness are not equal in proportion to each other by most measures. Human suffering is the rule and happiness is the exception across the globe on average. So eliminating suffering would indeed be a net gain.
1.1.5. Con: If the elimination of human suffering as such optimizes the utilitarian equation, as you seem to claim, then you should have killed yourself by now.
1.1.5.1. Con: The proposed outcome of this thought experiment is suicidal and genocidal on a scale hitherto unknown in human history. It is a thought experiment - suicide and mass murder are implied in the title of the thesis.
1.1.5.2. Con: By committing suicide one would cause more pain than he would stop causing, in a sense of directly emotionally harming those who loved him.
1.1.6. Pro: David Benatar's book, "Better Never to Have Been" and his related article, "[Kids? Just say no](https://aeon.co/essays/having-children-is-not-life-affirming-its-immoral)" makes the case that, "coming into existence is always a serious harm." To exist is to harm other sentient beings. Procreation produces suffering in the child as well as adding suffering to the rest of the universe.
1.1.7. Con: This claim operates under the assumption that the only way to evaluate being is along a pleasure-pain axis. There exists meaning and fulfillment outside of this dichotomy, which is neglected by this claim.
1.1.7.1. Con: The claim does not presuppose that evaluating life in terms of a happiness-suffering axis is the only conceivable metric, but rather that it is the most intuitive and relevant metric to be used in a discussion of ethics.
1.2. Con: The impact if the human race never existed must be factored in. Due to their apex position, humans manage and maintain as well as destroy. The unintended consequences of removing the most advanced species on Earth must be considered.
1.2.1. Pro: On a long enough timeline humans are the only thing with enough intellect and ingenuity to possibly preserve and protect nature from natural catastrophe. So, it doesn't matter how bad humans get, humans are still custodians of all life that are known.
1.2.1.1. Con: Life existed for over [3 billion years](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_the_evolutionary_history_of_life) without humans interfering and was doing just fine. Rather than preserving and protecting nature humans are causing another [extinction event](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holocene_extinction) through their interference.
1.2.2. Pro: Without humans at the top of the food chain another species would become more prevalent and humans would not then have any power to control the potential negative actions of that species.
1.2.2.1. Con: Our species has existed for at most around [300 thousand years](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recent_African_origin_of_modern_humans). Meanwhile life existed for multiple billion years before that without humans needing to "control" the negative actions of predators.
1.2.3. Con: Asteroids have hit the Earth before, and life subsisted.
1.2.3.1. Con: The claim is not specifically about asteroids, it is about any cataclysmic event man-made or natural that would follow the eradication of humankind that no modern species could respond to, other than possibly the newly deceased humankind.
1.2.3.2. Pro: The chances for the destruction of the Earth by asteroid are minimal. In addition, NASA has plans underway for deflecting or destroying asteroids. With the amount of time humans likely have \(a lot\), technology will be sufficient to avoid catastrophe. Most asteroids that hit the Earth do not have catastrophic effects.
1.2.3.3. Con: Life as a general phenomenon subsisted, but many creatures were killed prematurely. It is possible that human technology could prevent the premature destruction of the individual lives of many living organisms in this scenario.
1.2.3.3.1. Pro: Most species that have ever lived have gone extinct before man even existed. In fact, humans may be the first species to care whether or not a species other than humans sticks around or not.
1.2.3.3.2. Con: Preventing the destruction of species that otherwise would have gone extinct impedes natural selection, and may be detrimental to the process of evolution overall.
1.3. Con: Humans are the most evolved species that have ever been on Earth, and humanity is still socially and technologically evolving. Removing humanity from existence would remove this advancement.
1.3.1. Con: Earthworms have been evolving for the same time as humans. Evolution is not a progression from primitive to advanced, such a view is [incorrect](http://onlyagame.typepad.com/only_a_game/2009/01/myths-of-evolution-2-the-ladder-of-progress.html).
1.3.2. Pro: Further still, it may be the most advanced species in the universe. If humanity did not exist, the universe may end up losing the species with the most advanced consciousness.
1.3.2.1. Pro: The fact that humans can ponder over this debate makes them a unique anomaly that should be preserved.
1.3.2.2. Con: It is a mis-characterization of evolution to say that one species is more advanced than all others. [Evolution proceeds as a tree not as a line](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_of_life_\(biology\)) and as such no extant species can be said to be more evolved or advanced than any other.
1.4. Pro: Human beings are the only beings capable of eliminating all life and destroying the planet. This potential for harm is reason enough for them to never have existed.
1.4.1. Pro: Only human beings possess the intelligence required to create tools or weapons that can destroy the planet.
1.4.2. Con: Human beings won't destroy the planet as it is not in their interest to die.
1.4.2.1. Con: All of humanity need not necessarily contribute to a cataclysmic event. It only takes a handful of individuals to use nuclear weapons for most life to be destroyed on the planet.
1.5. Pro: Humans have caused [irreparable damage](https://www.seeker.com/humans-caused-322-animal-extinctions-in-past-500-years-1768850883.html) to the environment, and are causing constant harm, pain, and suffering to many other living organisms. All of this could have been circumvented if they had never existed.
1.5.1. Pro: By living the way they are today, human beings are destroying opportunities for other intelligent life to develop and are risking to irreparably destroy Earth.
1.5.1.1. Pro: Removing humans means giving chance for new intelligent life to develop.
1.5.1.1.1. Con: The chances of intelligent life developing on Earth again is astronomically low. An environmental stressor would be required in order to demand this adaptation along with additional time.
1.5.1.1.2. Con: It is not certain that humans are eliminating all chances for new intelligent life to develop, and through the use of AI technology human effort could be the most probable way of fostering a new type of intelligent life.
1.5.1.2. Con: In the cosmic perspective of life, there is no absolute sense of "good" and "bad".That's a human-created concept that wouldn't matter if humans were eradicated. Therefore, it makes humanity's existence irrelevant.
1.5.1.3. Con: There is nothing now living today with the intelligence and level of consciousness humans possess. Further, human levels of consciousness and intelligence are black swan moments in evolution. The claim assumes that it is a foregone conclusion that other intelligent life would develop.
1.5.1.4. Con: Other lifeforms that evolve after the exit of humans may go through a similar path that humans did, and generate as much consequences to the environment. Humans, instead, have already gone through their development stage, and can now work on making their lives more sustainable.
1.5.1.4.1. Pro: Other lifeforms that evolve after humans may not only go through the same struggles humans have, but if they evolve in nature they may not even come to possess the same level of respect towards other creatures that humans have developed.
1.5.1.5. Con: The development of human-level intelligence and consciousness is a black swan moment in evolution - killing humans over the minute improbable event of intelligence in other lifeforms is a lottery with terrible odds.
1.5.2. Con: Humans should not rank the "enjoyment" and living habitats of other species higher than that of our own species. The extinction of an entire species is not necessary for the well being of other species. If one takes sentient beings out of the equation it gets even more obvious: there will be no sentient being to enjoy this world.
1.5.2.1. Con: Animals are capable of joy. Dogs are quite obvious example, but wild animals also enjoy themselves.
1.5.2.1.1. Con: It is true that other creatures can experience pleasure and joy. This does not, however, support the position that all humanity should be eradicated. Domesticated animals would die or lead more miserable lives without humans. Many boutique dog breeds would cease to exist without vets to tweak their poorly adapted bodily mutations. These dog breeds experience pleasure and joy that they could not without humans.
1.5.2.1.1.1. Con: If no humans were around to stylize dog breeds to meet their fetishistic and ever changing whims, dog breeds would return to evolutionary fitness after the initial mass extinctions. This is also true with other domesticated mutants.
1.5.3. Con: Humanity only caused more harm because it has been the most successful at the survival game. All unchecked, unchallenged species wreak havoc on their respective ecosystems. A more relevant point of debate should look at humanity's ability to adapt to a more sustainable way of life.
1.5.4. Pro: Humans are by nature corrupt, and as such, the universe would have been better without them.
1.5.4.1. Pro: As members of the planet, humans are as corrupt as all living organisms in that humans must kill to live. This is inherently base and renders humans unable to evolve sufficiently to justify continuance. Human are intelligent enough to act without killing yet they continue to choose the basest of acts millennium after millennium with no progress.
1.5.4.1.1. Con: Crocodiles are not corrupt because they kill the wildebeest. Evolution requires stressors to work. All other animals would not thrive without humans, only some would. Most domesticated animals would lead painful lives and then die. It seems as though no one is considering the pain and suffering of animal lives intertwined and dependent on humans.
1.5.4.1.2. Con: It is base to live by killing but the proposal under discussion explicitly calls for the killing of all humans. This may strike some as a bit counter productive and possibly a non sequitur.
1.5.4.2. Con: Even if true, if one grants that evolution is also true then one must concede that what humans consider "corrupt" was at one time an adaptation. If that is true, one could then argue that the universe nursed these corrupt natures over time for purposes humans may not fully understand.
1.5.4.3. Con: "Better" is a value claim. The post-human universe may not make the same value judgement given that humans are an outcome of the evolving universe. Humans could be the primary consciousness of the universe. This suggests an eradication far deeper than the claim implies.
1.5.4.4. Con: The universe probably isn't anthropocentric.
1.5.5. Con: Maybe humanity should be better in that regard, and start protecting the environment better, instead of being completely wiped out.
1.5.5.1. Con: There is a certain inevitable cost to human existence. Humans can try to minimize that, but it isn't immediately clear that they can support a population of their size without damaging the environment in some way.
1.5.6. Con: The distinction between "damage" and a more neutral "change" is a human conception, not an objective fact. The environment is only "damaged" insofar as it is less able to support the life forms humans are used to, which are but a speck in the overall ecological history of the planet.
1.5.6.1. Pro: More than [99% of all species](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extinction) that have ever lived on Earth, are extinct, most due to [five mass extinction events](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extinction_event) that took place before humans ever existed, so environmental changes and their effects seem to be natural occurrences, even if humans can play a role in causing them.
1.5.7. Con: It isn't immediately clear that all of those animals can suffer or feel pain.
1.5.7.1. Con: There is currently no clear understanding of consciousness or intelligence such that humans could possibly define or measure the suffering of other life forms. All available understanding is far too biased in human perception. But scientists studying other creatures seem to constantly discover how much more complex they are than previously assumed.
1.5.7.2. Pro: Suffering should be put in the context of levels of consciousness. Lower levels of consciousness, intelligence and other advanced human traits would seem to imply lower levels of suffering in animals. Abortions are allowed based on a similar logic. A less developed fetus is less conscious and aware therefore it is more humane to abort closer to conception.
1.5.8. Con: All life necessarily inflicts harm to survive because the resources needed to sustain life are scarce and must be competed for. Nature demands living beings to eat or be eaten.