Discussion Title: You should pay off your mortgage early

1. You should pay off your mortgage early
1.1. Pro: Paying early earns favor from credit bureaus and banks for future large investments.
1.1.1. Pro: Paying early shows you are reliable and committed to paying back the money lent.
1.1.2. Con: Paying a mortgage on time and consistently can have the same effect.
1.1.3. Pro: Credit bureaus and banks are more likely to increase a person's credit line, based on speedy payments.
1.2. Pro: Owning your home free of debt provides freedom from the risk of foreclosure in a future rainy day.
1.3. Pro: Early repayment saves money spent on interest.
1.3.1. Con: Early repayment usually involves cancellation fees and other costs.
1.3.1.1. Con: It's possible to refinance so that there are no longer early repayment penalties.
1.4. Pro: Paying off your mortgage frees up monthly cash flow to use for other purposes.
1.4.1. Con: Many people do not have the cash flow to pay off their mortgage early.
1.4.2. Pro: More money can go towards a savings account.
1.4.3. Pro: Parents can put away more for their children's college funds.
1.5. Con: With a mortgage, one can keep the mortgage interest deduction on their personal income taxes in the US.
1.5.1. Con: That may be beneficial depending on one's income and the amount of deduction that the mortgage represents.
1.6. Con: Money you could use to pay off your mortgage would earn a better return if you faithfully invest it in a vehicle that returns a greater average interest rate than your mortgage.
1.6.1. Pro: The S&P 500 recorded an average annual return of [8.11%](https://www.thebalance.com/stocks-vs-bonds-the-long-term-performance-data-416861) between 2004 and 2014. This compares to an average [3%](https://www.census.gov/construction/nrs/pdf/uspriceann.pdf) return on house prices in the US.
1.6.1.1. Con: This data is during a historic low interest rate period.
1.6.1.2. Con: This claim does not support the point made in the previous level. That claim posited greater return could be made on the money if invested in something that would outpace the money lost to the mortgage's interest. With the average increase in house price, it actually makes it harder to find a product that would match paying off the mortgage early.
1.6.2. Con: Many people lack the discipline to "invest the difference" compared to auto-pay on their mortgage.
1.6.3. Con: A mortgage guarantees a return on investment.
1.7. Con: Since foreclosure is hard for the lender, a mortgage is a fairly safe form of debt even when things go badly for the borrower.
1.8. Pro: Following the age-old advice to get out of debt provides emotional comfort.
1.8.1. Con: That emotional comfort may cause more distress if to repay early too much financial cut have to be made on a day to day basis.
1.8.2. Pro: A mortgage is typically the largest invest. To have it paid off provides of sense of security.
1.9. Con: A mortgage is the cheapest way to use "other people's money" for your own purposes. \(e.g. cash our refinance\)