Discussion Title: You don't need standup

1. Agile development should abolish all regular meetings, including standup, retro, planning and only have meetings exactly when necessary.
1.1. Con: The success of abolishing all kinds of regular meetings in agile develeopment depends on a multitude of environmental factors and cannot be generalized as such.
1.2. Pro: Many meetings take an unnecessary amount of time, e.g. 30min standups.
1.2.1. Con: When run correctly \(clear agenda, strict time box\), meetings do not overrun their schedule
1.2.2. Con: The moderator \(Scrum Master in many cases\) should guide the participants to focus and keep the time box.
1.2.3. Con: Meetings can be kept short by sticking to the agenda \(Did, Doing, Blocked for standup\)
1.2.3.1. Pro: Discussion should not take place within the standup
1.3. Con: There's a significant problem in determining exactly when meetings are necessary. Agile Scrum standups help team members understand who they need to meet with and when.
1.4. Pro: Development \("stories"\) cannot be scheduled to fit exactly into one sprint's duration \(1-3 weeks\). Thus, planning should occur when needed and not even every story needs to be planned at all.
1.4.1. Con: Stories should be split into smaller feature sets that can be implemented within the sprint duration
1.5. Pro: Praise and criticism should be offered all the time, especially right when an issue comes up. One retrospective meeting per sprint is useless in a functional team.
1.5.1. Con: A retrospective can be beneficial for any team, because it provides an opportunity \(and a reminder\) for reflection and optimisation that would not otherwise happen.
1.5.2. Con: Retrospectives give introverted people the space to voice their thoughts what they would normally not do.
1.5.3. Con: Retrospectives provide the dedicated space for thinking about improvements, with all participants being focused on that same goal
1.5.4. Con: An artificially small feedback window gives the concerned party a chance to answer their own question.
1.6. Con: Having meetings at regular intervals allows developers to schedule their workflow around those fixed dates. If meetings can be scheduled at any time it gets harder to develop a working routine.
1.6.1. Pro: With flexible working hours some people might not even be around when a meeting is scheduled ad-hoc.
1.6.1.1. Con: Meetings should not rely on specific persons to be available, because people can also be absent because of illness or vacations.
1.7. Con: Having a regular schedule simplifies collaboration with others involved in the product who are not part of the team, e.g. other departments, the management or external design agencies.
1.7.1. Pro: Open standups \(at a fixed time and place, public to all members of the organisation\) effects trust in the dev team by the stake holders.
1.7.2. Con: Other parties can schedule meetings in at any time to get the current information when needed
1.7.2.1. Con: This will lead to multiple "reporting meetings" with various kind of stakeholders.