Discussion Title: YouTube should facilitate revenue splitting by rights-holders.

1. YouTube should facilitate revenue splitting by rights-holders.
1.1. Con: It would require an impartial adjudicator to determine what percentage should be attributed to each party and there is no clear agent who could play this role.
1.1.1. Con: It doesn't currently exist because there is no system in place creating a need for it. That does not mean an adjudicating company could not be found if the policy was implemented.
1.1.1.1. Pro: New companies and agencies might arise from new necessities of the society.
1.1.2. Con: Impartiality is not a requirement for revenue splitting.
1.1.2.1. Pro: Revenue splitting takes place in many contexts already.
1.1.2.2. Pro: Receiving a benefit is the only purpose.
1.2. Pro: The authorized use of copyrighted material could improve the quality of videos on the platform.
1.3. Pro: Sharing revenue would relieve a major dilemma for rights-holders.  They may want their content to be widely seen, but they also want to receive payments.
1.3.1. Con: Rights holders would lose money under this new policy, as they currently get 100% of the revenue.
1.4. Con: Decreasing the cost or risk of using copyrighted material could diminish the roles played by royalty-free content.
1.4.1. Con: Royalty free content does not serve any great use in a world where more popular content is affordable ; given this limited use, it is not inherently bad that its role would be diminished.
1.5. Pro: Content creators would be able to feature the material they love without facing such a large risk to their income.
1.6. Pro: Rights-holders could pursue a promotional strategy on the basis of what revenue percentages they claimed.
1.6.1. Pro: A record label could encourage usage of their music by promising that a low percentage would be claimed.
1.7. Pro: Copyrighted snippets could derive revenue commensurate with their role in the content.
1.7.1. Con: Copyrighted snippets already receive the benefit of having their content broadcast and advertised.
1.8. Con: The increased usage of copyrighted material would create a large burden on rights-holders to oversee their policies.
1.8.1. Con: If these responsibilities would be financially recompensed, it's likely they'd find a way to do it.